UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549 
Form 10-K
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024
Commission File Number: 001-14965
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 
Delaware
13-4019460
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
 
 
200 West Street, New York, NY
10282
(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)
(212) 902-1000
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
Title of each class
Trading
Symbol
Exchange
on which
registered
Common stock, par value $0.01 per share
GS
NYSE
Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A
GS PRA
NYSE
Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C
GS PRC
NYSE
Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D
GS PRD
NYSE
5.793% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital II
GS/43PE
NYSE
Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital III
GS/43PF
NYSE
Medium-Term Notes, Series F, Callable Fixed and Floating Rate Notes due March 2031 of GS Finance Corp.
GS/31B
NYSE
Medium-Term Notes, Series F, Callable Fixed and Floating Rate Notes due May 2031 of GS Finance Corp.
GS/31X
NYSE
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. ☐ Yes ☒ No 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. ☐ Yes ☒ No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the 
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 
days. ☒ Yes ☐ No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T 
(§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). ☒ Yes ☐ No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth 
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the 
Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer  ☒ 
Accelerated filer ☐
 
Non-accelerated filer ☐ 
Smaller reporting company ☐ 
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised 
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial 
reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒     
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the 
correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐  
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the 
registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to § 240.10D-1(b). ☐ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). ☐ Yes ☒ No 
As of June 30, 2024, the aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $142.3 billion.
As of February 7, 2025, there were 312,039,033 shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding. 
Documents incorporated by reference: Portions of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for its 2025 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by 
reference in the Annual Report on Form 10-K in response to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024 
 INDEX 
Form 10-K Item Number
Page No.
PART I
1
 
Item 1
 
Business
1
Introduction
1
Our Business Segments
1
Global Banking & Markets
1
Asset & Wealth Management
4
Platform Solutions
5
Business Continuity and Information Security
5
Human Capital Management
6
Sustainability
8
Competition
9
Regulation
10
Information about our Executive Officers
27
Available Information
28
Forward-Looking Statements
28
 
Item 1A
Risk Factors
31
 
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
60
Item 1C
Cybersecurity
60
 
Item 2
Properties
60
 
Item 3
Legal Proceedings
60
 
Item 4
Mine Safety Disclosures
60
PART II
61
Item 5
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
61
Page No.
 Item 7
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations
62
 
Introduction
62
 
Executive Overview
63
 
Business Environment
64
 
Critical Accounting Policies
64
 
Use of Estimates
66
 
Recent Accounting Developments
67
 
Results of Operations
68
 
Balance Sheet and Funding Sources
83
 
Capital Management and Regulatory Capital
88
 
Regulatory and Other Matters
93
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
94
 
Risk Management
95
 
Overview and Structure of Risk Management
95
 
Liquidity Risk Management
99
 
Market Risk Management
106
 
Credit Risk Management
111
 
Operational Risk Management
120
Cybersecurity Risk Management
122
 
Model Risk Management
124
 
Other Risk Management
125
 
Item 7A
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
127
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 INDEX 
Page No.
 Item 8
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
127
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
127
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
128
Consolidated Financial Statements
131
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
131
 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
131
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
132
 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
133
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
134
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
135
 
Note 1. Description of Business
135
 Note 2. Basis of Presentation
136
 
Note 3. Significant Accounting Policies
136
 
Note 4. Fair Value Measurements
142
 
Note 5. Fair Value Hierarchy
147
 
Note 6. Trading Assets and Liabilities
161
 
Note 7. Derivatives and Hedging Activities
162
 
Note 8. Investments
168
 
Note 9. Loans
172
 
Note 10. Fair Value Option
181
 
Note 11. Collateralized Agreements and Financings
183
 
Note 12. Other Assets
186
 
Note 13. Deposits
189
 
Note 14. Unsecured Borrowings
190
 
Note 15. Other Liabilities
192
 
Note 16. Securitization Activities
193
 
Note 17. Variable Interest Entities
195
 
Note 18. Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees
198
 
Note 19. Shareholders’ Equity
202
 
Note 20. Regulation and Capital Adequacy
205
 
Note 21. Earnings Per Common Share
211
 
Note 22. Transactions with Affiliated Funds
211
 
Note 23. Interest Income and Interest Expense
212
 
Note 24. Income Taxes
212
 
Note 25. Business Segments
215
 
Note 26. Credit Concentrations
217
 
Note 27. Legal Proceedings
218
 
Note 28. Employee Benefit Plans
230
 
Note 29. Employee Incentive Plans
231
 
Note 30. Parent Company
233
Page No.
Supplemental Financial Information
235
Common Stock Performance
235
Statistical Disclosures
235
 Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure
240
 
Item 9A
 
Controls and Procedures
240
 
Item 9B
Other Information
240
 
Item 9C
Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
240
 PART III
240
 
Item 10
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
240
 
Item 11
 
Executive Compensation
240
 
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters
241
 Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence
241
 
Item 14
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
241
 PART IV
241
 Item 15
 
Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules
241
 SIGNATURES
246
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
PART I
Item 1.  Business
Introduction
Goldman Sachs is a leading global financial institution that 
delivers a broad range of financial services to a large and 
diversified client base that includes corporations, financial 
institutions, governments and individuals. Our purpose is to 
advance 
sustainable 
economic 
growth 
and 
financial 
opportunity. Our goal, reflected in our One Goldman Sachs 
initiative, is to deliver the full range of our services and 
expertise to support our clients in a more accessible, 
comprehensive and efficient manner, across businesses and 
product areas. 
When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “we,” “us,” “our” 
and "the firm," we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
(Group Inc. or parent company), a Delaware corporation, 
and its consolidated subsidiaries. When we use the term “our 
subsidiaries,” we mean the consolidated subsidiaries of 
Group Inc. References to “this Form 10-K” are to our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. 
All references to 2024, 2023 and 2022 refer to our years 
ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 
2024, December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, 
respectively.
Group Inc. is a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial 
holding company (FHC) regulated by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System (FRB). Our U.S. depository 
institution subsidiary, Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank 
USA), is a New York State-chartered bank.
Our Business Segments
We manage and report our activities in three business 
segments: Global Banking & Markets, Asset & Wealth 
Management and Platform Solutions. Global Banking & 
Markets generates revenues from investment banking fees, 
including advisory, and equity and debt underwriting fees, 
Fixed 
Income, 
Currency 
and 
Commodities 
(FICC) 
intermediation 
and 
financing 
activities 
and 
Equities 
intermediation 
and 
financing 
activities, 
as 
well 
as 
relationship lending and acquisition financing (and related 
hedges) and investing activities related to our Global Banking 
& Markets activities. Asset & Wealth Management generates 
revenues from management and other fees, incentive fees, 
private banking and lending, equity investments and debt 
investments. Platform Solutions generates revenues from 
consumer platforms and transaction banking and other.  
The chart below presents our three business segments and 
their revenue sources. 
Global Banking & Markets
Global Banking & Markets serves public and private sector 
clients and we seek to develop and maintain long-term 
relationships with a diverse global group of institutional 
clients, including corporations, governments, states and 
municipalities. Our goal is to deliver to our institutional 
clients all of our resources in a seamless fashion, with our 
advisory and underwriting activities serving as the main 
initial point of contact. We make markets and facilitate client 
transactions in fixed income, currency, commodity and 
equity products and offer market expertise on a global basis. 
In addition, we make markets in, and clear client transactions 
on, major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. 
Our clients include companies that raise capital and funding 
to grow and strengthen their businesses, and engage in 
mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense, 
restructurings and spin-offs, as well as companies that are 
professional market participants, who buy and sell financial 
products and manage risk, and investment entities whose 
ultimate clients include individual investors investing for 
their retirement, buying insurance or saving surplus cash. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
1
As a market maker, we provide prices to clients globally 
across thousands of products in all major asset classes and 
markets. At times, we take the other side of transactions 
ourselves if a buyer or seller is not readily available, and at 
other times we connect our clients to other parties who want 
to transact. Our willingness to make markets, commit capital 
and take risk in a broad range of products is crucial to our 
client relationships. Market makers provide liquidity and 
play a critical role in price discovery, which contributes to the 
overall efficiency of the capital markets. In connection with 
our market-making activities, we maintain (i) market-making 
positions, typically for a short period of time, in response to, 
or in anticipation of, client demand, and (ii) positions to 
actively manage our risk exposures that arise from these 
market-making activities (collectively, inventory). 
We execute a high volume of transactions for our clients in 
large, highly liquid markets (such as markets for U.S. 
Treasury securities, stocks and certain agency mortgage pass-
through securities). We also execute transactions for our 
clients in less liquid markets (such as mid-cap corporate 
bonds, emerging market currencies and certain non-agency 
mortgage-backed securities) for spreads and fees that are 
generally somewhat larger than those charged in more liquid 
markets. Additionally, we structure and execute transactions 
involving customized or tailor-made products that address 
our clients’ risk exposures, investment objectives or other 
complex needs, as well as derivative transactions related to 
client advisory and underwriting activities.
Through our global sales force, we maintain relationships 
with our clients, receiving orders and distributing investment 
research, trading ideas, market information and analysis. 
Much of this connectivity between us and our clients is 
maintained on technology platforms, including Marquee, and 
operates globally where markets are open for trading. 
Marquee provides institutional investors with market 
intelligence, risk analytics, proprietary datasets and trade 
execution across multiple asset classes.
Our businesses are supported by our Global Investment 
Research business, which, as of December 2024, provided 
fundamental research on approximately 3,000 companies 
worldwide and on approximately 50 national economies, as 
well as on industries, currencies and commodities.
Our activities are organized by asset class and include both 
“cash” and “derivative” instruments. “Cash” refers to trading 
the underlying instrument (such as a stock, bond or barrel of 
oil). “Derivative” refers to instruments that derive their value 
from underlying asset prices, indices, reference rates and 
other inputs, or a combination of these factors (such as an 
option, which is the right or obligation to buy or sell a certain 
bond, stock or other asset on a specified date in the future at 
a certain price, or an interest rate swap, which is the 
agreement to convert a fixed rate of interest into a floating 
rate or vice versa). 
Global Banking & Markets generates revenues from the 
following: 
Investment banking fees. We provide advisory and 
underwriting services and help companies raise capital to 
strengthen and grow their businesses. 
Investment banking fees includes the following:
• Advisory. We have been a leader for many years in 
providing advisory services, including strategic advisory 
assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, 
divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and 
spin-offs. In particular, we help clients execute large, 
complex transactions for which we provide multiple 
services, including cross-border structuring expertise. We 
also assist our clients in managing their asset and liability 
exposures and their capital. 
• Underwriting. We help companies raise capital to fund 
their businesses. As a financial intermediary, our job is to 
match the capital of our investing clients, who aim to grow 
the savings of millions of people, with the needs of our 
public and private sector clients, who need financing to 
generate growth, create jobs and deliver products and 
services. Our underwriting activities include public 
offerings and private placements in both local and cross-
border transactions of a wide range of securities and other 
financial instruments, including acquisition financing. 
Underwriting consists of the following:
Equity underwriting. We underwrite common stock, 
preferred stock, convertible securities and exchangeable 
securities. We regularly receive mandates for large, 
complex transactions and have held a leading position in 
worldwide public common stock offerings and worldwide 
initial public offerings for many years.
Debt underwriting. We originate and underwrite various 
types of debt instruments, including investment-grade and 
high-yield debt, bank and bridge loans, including in 
connection with acquisition financing, and emerging- and 
growth-market debt, which may be issued by, among 
others, corporate, sovereign, municipal and agency issuers. 
In addition, we underwrite and originate structured 
securities, which include mortgage-related securities and 
other asset-backed securities.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
2
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
FICC. FICC generates revenues from intermediation and 
financing activities.
• FICC intermediation. Includes client execution activities 
related to making markets in both cash and derivative 
instruments, as detailed below. 
Interest Rate Products. Government bonds (including 
inflation-linked 
securities) 
across 
maturities, 
other 
government-backed securities, and interest rate swaps, 
options and other derivatives.
Credit 
Products. 
Investment-grade 
and 
high-yield 
corporate securities, credit derivatives, exchange-traded 
funds (ETFs), bank and bridge loans, municipal securities, 
distressed debt and trade claims. 
Mortgages. Commercial mortgage-related securities, 
loans 
and 
derivatives, 
residential 
mortgage-related 
securities, loans and derivatives (including U.S. government 
agency-issued collateralized mortgage obligations and 
other securities and loans), and other asset-backed 
securities, loans and derivatives.
Currencies. Currency options, spot/forwards and other 
derivatives on G-10 currencies and emerging-market 
products.
Commodities. Commodity derivatives and, to a lesser 
extent, physical commodities, involving crude oil and 
petroleum products, natural gas, agricultural, base, 
precious and other metals, electricity, including renewable 
power, environmental products and other commodity 
products.
• FICC financing. Includes (i) secured lending to our clients 
through structured credit and asset-backed lending, 
including warehouse loans backed by mortgages (including 
residential and commercial mortgage loans), corporate 
loans and consumer loans (including auto loans and private 
student loans), (ii) financing through securities purchased 
under agreements to resell (resale agreements) and (iii) 
commodity financing to clients through structured 
transactions.
Equities. Equities generates revenues from intermediation 
and financing activities.
• Equities intermediation. We make markets in equity 
securities and equity-related products, including ETFs, 
convertible securities, options, futures and over-the-
counter (OTC) derivative instruments. As a principal, we 
facilitate client transactions by providing liquidity to our 
clients, including by transacting in large blocks of stocks or 
derivatives, requiring the commitment of our capital. 
We also structure and make markets in derivatives on 
indices, industry sectors, financial measures and individual 
company stocks. We develop strategies and provide 
information about portfolio hedging and restructuring and 
asset allocation transactions for our clients. We also work 
with our clients to create specially tailored instruments to 
enable sophisticated investors to establish or liquidate 
investment positions or undertake hedging strategies. We 
are one of the leading participants in the trading and 
development of equity derivative instruments.
Our exchange-based market-making activities include 
making markets in stocks and ETFs, futures and options on 
major exchanges worldwide.
In addition, we generate commissions and fees from 
executing and clearing institutional client transactions on 
major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, as 
well as OTC transactions. We provide our clients with 
access to a broad spectrum of equity execution services, 
including electronic “low-touch” access and more complex 
“high-touch” execution through both traditional and 
electronic platforms.
• Equities financing. Includes prime financing, which 
provides financing to our clients for their securities trading 
activities through margin loans that are generally 
collateralized by securities or cash. Prime financing also 
includes services which involve lending securities to cover 
institutional clients’ short sales and borrowing securities to 
cover our short sales and to make deliveries into the 
market. We are also an active participant in broker-to-
broker securities lending and third-party agency lending 
activities. In addition, we execute swap transactions to 
provide our clients with exposure to securities and indices. 
Financing activities also include portfolio financing, which 
clients can utilize to manage their investment portfolios, 
and other equity financing activities, including securities-
based loans to individuals.
Other. We lend to corporate clients, including through 
relationship lending and acquisition financing. The hedges 
related to this lending and financing activity are also reported 
as part of Other. Other also includes equity and debt 
investing activities related to our Global Banking & Markets 
activities.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
3
Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management provides investment services to 
help clients preserve and grow their financial assets and 
achieve their financial goals. We provide these services to our 
clients, both institutional and individuals, including investors 
who primarily access our products through a network of 
third-party distributors around the world.
We manage client assets across a broad range of investment 
strategies and asset classes, including equity, fixed income 
and 
alternative 
investments. 
Alternative 
investments 
primarily includes hedge funds, credit funds, private equity, 
real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation 
strategies. Our investment offerings include those managed 
on a fiduciary basis by our portfolio managers, as well as 
those managed by third-party managers. We offer our 
investment solutions in a variety of structures, including 
separately 
managed 
accounts, 
mutual 
funds, 
private 
partnerships and other commingled vehicles.
We also provide customized investment advisory solutions 
designed to address our clients’ investment needs. These 
solutions begin with identifying clients’ objectives and 
continue through portfolio construction, ongoing asset 
allocation and risk management and investment realization. 
We draw from a variety of third-party managers, as well as 
our proprietary offerings, to implement solutions for clients.
We also provide tailored wealth advisory services, primarily 
to ultra-high-net worth clients. We operate globally, serving 
individuals, families, family offices, and foundations and 
endowments. Our relationships are established directly or 
introduced through companies that sponsor financial 
wellness or financial planning programs for their employees, 
as well as through corporate referrals. 
We offer personalized financial planning to individuals and 
also provide customized investment advisory solutions, and 
offer structuring and execution capabilities in securities and 
derivative products across all major global markets. In 
addition, we offer clients a full range of private banking 
services, including a variety of deposit alternatives and loans 
that our clients use to finance investments in both financial 
and nonfinancial assets, bridge cash flow timing gaps or 
provide liquidity and flexibility for other needs. We also raise 
deposits from consumers through Marcus by Goldman Sachs 
(Marcus).
We invest alongside our clients that invest in investment 
funds that we raise or manage. We also have investments in 
alternative assets across a range of asset classes. Our 
investing activities, which are typically longer-term, include 
investments in corporate equity, credit, real estate and 
infrastructure assets. See “Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — 
Results of Operations — Asset & Wealth Management” in 
Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for information about our 
targets to reduce our historical principal investments.
Asset & Wealth Management generates revenues from the 
following:
• Management and other fees. We receive fees related to 
managing assets for institutional and individual clients, 
providing investing and wealth advisory solutions, 
providing financial planning and counseling services, and 
executing brokerage transactions for wealth management 
clients. The vast majority of revenues in management and 
other fees consists of asset-based fees on client assets that 
we manage. The fees that we charge vary by asset class, 
client channel and the types of services provided, and are 
affected by investment performance, as well as asset 
inflows and redemptions. 
• Incentive fees. In certain circumstances, we also receive 
incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s or a 
separately managed account’s return, or when the return 
exceeds a specified benchmark or other performance 
targets. Such fees include overrides, which consist of the 
increased share of the income and gains derived primarily 
from our private equity and credit funds when the return 
on a fund’s investments over the life of the fund exceeds 
certain threshold returns. 
• Private banking and lending. Our private banking and 
lending activities include issuing loans to our wealth 
management clients. Such loans are generally secured by 
commercial and residential real estate, securities or other 
assets. We also raise deposits from wealth management 
clients, including through Marcus. Private banking and 
lending revenues include net interest income allocated to 
deposits and net interest income earned on loans to 
individual clients.
• Equity investments. Includes investing activities related 
to our asset management activities primarily related to 
public and private equity investments in corporate, real 
estate and infrastructure assets. We also make investments 
through consolidated investment entities, substantially all 
of which are engaged in real estate investment activities. In 
addition, we make investments in connection with our 
activities to satisfy requirements under the Community 
Reinvestment Act (CRA), primarily through our Urban 
Investment Group. 
• Debt investments. Includes lending activities related to 
our asset management activities, including investing in 
corporate debt, lending to middle-market clients, and 
providing financing for real estate and other assets. These 
activities include investments in mezzanine debt, senior 
debt and distressed debt securities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
4
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Platform Solutions
Platform Solutions includes our consumer platforms and 
transaction banking and other.
Platform Solutions generates revenues from the following:
Consumer platforms. Our Consumer platforms business 
issues credit cards, and raises deposits from Apple Card 
customers. Consumer platforms revenues primarily includes 
net interest income earned on credit card lending activities. 
During 2024, we entered into an agreement to transition the 
General Motors (GM) credit card program to another issuer. 
The transition is expected to be completed in the third 
quarter of 2025. 
Transaction banking and other. We provide transaction 
banking and other services, such as deposit-taking, payment 
solutions and other cash management services, for corporate 
and institutional clients. Transaction banking revenues 
include net interest income attributed to transaction banking 
deposits. 
During 2023 and 2024, we narrowed our focus with respect to 
consumer-related activities by taking several actions. See 
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory and 
Other Matters — Other Matters — Narrowing our Focus on 
Consumer-Related Activities” for further information.
Business Continuity and Information Security
Business continuity and information security, including 
cybersecurity, are high priorities for us. Their importance has 
been highlighted by (i) numerous highly publicized events in 
recent years, including cyber attacks against financial 
institutions, governmental agencies, large consumer-based 
companies, software and information technology service 
providers and other organizations, some of which have 
resulted in the unauthorized access to or disclosure of 
personal information and other sensitive or confidential 
information, the theft and destruction of corporate 
information, requests for ransom payments, and disruptions 
to organizations’ operations, (ii) extreme weather events and 
(iii) the COVID-19 pandemic. See “Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations — Risk Management — Cybersecurity Risk 
Management” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further 
information about cybersecurity.
Our Business Continuity & Technology Resilience Program 
has been developed to provide reasonable assurance of 
business continuity in the event of disruptions at our critical 
facilities or of our systems, and to comply with regulatory 
requirements, including those of FINRA. Because we are a 
BHC, our Business Continuity & Technology Resilience 
Program is also subject to review by the FRB. The key 
elements of the program are crisis management, business 
continuity, 
technology 
resilience, 
business 
recovery, 
assurance and verification, and process improvement. In the 
area of information security, we have developed and 
implemented a framework of principles, policies and 
technology designed to protect the information provided to 
us by our clients and our own information from cyber attacks 
and other misappropriation, corruption or loss. Safeguards 
are designed to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and 
availability of information. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
5
Human Capital Management
Our people are our greatest asset. We believe that a major 
strength and principal reason for our success is the quality, 
dedication, determination and collaboration of our people, 
which enables us to serve our clients, generate long-term 
value for our shareholders and contribute to the broader 
community. 
Our Workforce 
Our goal is to attract, retain, and promote an exceptionally 
skilled workforce. We invest heavily in developing and 
supporting our people throughout their careers, and we strive 
to maintain a work environment that fosters professionalism, 
excellence, high standards of business ethics, teamwork and 
cooperation among our employees worldwide. 
We believe that the diversity of our workforce, including 
diversity of perspectives, enhances our performance-based 
culture and is critical to our commercial success. We 
previously set forth five-year aspirational hiring and 
representation goals which expire in 2025, and we are proud 
of the progress we have made. We remain focused on the 
importance of attracting and retaining diverse exceptional 
talent. In that connection, we will continue to develop 
programs consistent with our fundamental commitment  to 
inclusive merit-based promotion and in compliance with the 
law. 
Talent Development and Retention 
We seek to help our people achieve their full potential by 
investing in them and supporting a culture of continuous 
development. Our goals are to maximize individual 
capabilities, 
increase 
commercial 
effectiveness 
and 
innovation, reinforce our culture, expand professional 
opportunities, and help our people contribute positively to 
their communities. As of December 2024, the average tenure 
of the members of our Management Committee was 
approximately 24 years, and that of all of our employees was 
approximately 6 years. In addition, more than 40% of our 
partners were campus hires.
Instilling our culture in all employees is a continuous process, 
in which training plays an important part. We offer our 
employees the opportunity to participate in ongoing 
educational offerings and periodic seminars facilitated by our 
Learning & Engagement team. To accelerate their integration 
into the firm and our culture, new hires have the opportunity 
to receive training as soon as they start working via 
orientation programs that emphasize culture and networking, 
and nearly all employees participate in at least one training 
event each year. For our more senior employees, we provide 
guidance and training on how to manage people and projects 
effectively, exhibit strong leadership and exemplify our 
culture. We are also focused on developing a high 
performing, diverse leadership pipeline and career planning 
for our next generation of leaders. We maintain a variety of 
programs aimed at employees’ professional growth and 
leadership development. For example, we are focused on 
ensuring that vice presidents have the necessary coaching, 
sponsorship and advocacy to support their career trajectories 
and strengthen their leadership platforms. Many other career 
development initiatives are aimed at fostering talent at the 
analyst and associate levels. We also work closely with our 
leadership teams to promote diversity and inclusion. Our 
global and regional Inclusion Networks and Interest Forums 
are open to all of our professionals to promote and advance 
these goals.
Enhancing our people’s experience of internal mobility is a 
key focus, as we believe that this will inspire employees, help 
retain top talent and create diverse experiences to build 
future leaders.
Another important part of instilling our culture is our 
employee performance review process. Employees are 
reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and employees whom 
they supervise in a 360-degree review process that is integral 
to our team approach and includes an evaluation of an 
employee’s performance. Our approach to evaluating 
employee performance centers on providing robust, timely 
and 
actionable 
feedback 
that 
facilitates 
professional 
development. We have directed our managers, as leaders at 
the firm, to take an active coaching role with their teams. We 
also engage in “The Three Conversations at GS” through 
which managers establish goals with their team members at 
the start of the year, check in mid-year on progress and then 
close out the year with a conversation on performance 
against goals.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
6
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We believe that our people value opportunities to contribute 
to their communities and that these opportunities enhance 
their job satisfaction. We also believe that being able to 
volunteer together with colleagues and support community 
organizations through completing local service projects 
strengthens our people’s bond with us. Community 
TeamWorks, our signature volunteering initiative, enables 
our people to participate in high-impact, team-based 
volunteer opportunities, including projects coordinated with 
hundreds of nonprofit partner organizations worldwide. 
During 2024, our people volunteered approximately 103,000 
hours of service globally through Community TeamWorks, 
with approximately 19,000 employees partnering with 660 
nonprofit organizations on approximately 1,400 community 
projects.   
Wellness 
We recognize that for our people to be successful in the 
workplace they need support in their personal, as well as 
their professional, lives and that is why our wellness 
framework is designed to promote health and fitness, 
resilience, and work-life balance. We provide a number of 
policies for our employees that support taking time away 
from the office when needed, including a minimum of 20 
weeks of parental leave and up to four weeks of family care 
leave in order to assist with the care of family members with 
a serious health condition, death of an immediate family 
member or miscarriage, in addition to bereavement leave. We 
allow managing directors to take time off without a fixed 
vacation day entitlement, and have also set a minimum 
annual expected vacation usage of 15 days for all employees. 
For longer-tenured employees, we offer an unpaid sabbatical 
leave. 
We also continue to advance our resilience programs, 
offering our people a range of counseling, coaching, medical 
advisory and personal wellness services. We have introduced 
and globally scaled the internationally recognized Mental 
Health First Aid certification to our people. As of December 
2024, over 1,300 employees were certified across the firm, 
surpassing our goal to train 1,000 Mental Health First Aiders 
by the end of 2024. We have evolved and strengthened virtual 
offerings to enhance access to support, with the aim of 
maintaining the physical and mental well-being of our 
people, and enhancing their effectiveness and productivity. 
We also launched a manager mental health training to help 
support leaders globally, achieving a completion rate of 
approximately 85%.
We understand the crucial role caregiving plays in the lives of 
our employees. To help enable employees to better balance 
their roles at work and their responsibilities at home, we 
offer a variety of family-centered benefits, including adoption 
and surrogacy stipends, as well as adult or childcare options 
to help our people navigate caregiving across various life 
stages. Employees also have access to our family care 
coordination services for comprehensive support and 
coaching across the caregiving continuum—from their 
transition to new parenthood to care for adult family 
members.
In addition, to support the financial wellness of our 
employees, we offer a variety of resources that help them 
manage their personal financial health and decision-making, 
including financial education information sessions, live and 
on-demand webinars, articles and interactive digital tools.
Global Reach and Strategic Locations
As a firm with a global client base, we take a strategic 
approach to attracting, developing and managing a global 
workforce. Our clients are located worldwide and we are an 
active participant in financial markets around the world. As 
of December 2024, we had headcount of 46,500, offices in 
over 40 countries, and 50% of our headcount was based in 
the Americas, 20% in Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA) and 30% in Asia. Our employees come from over 
190 countries and speak more than 170 languages as of 
December 2024.
In addition to maintaining offices in major financial centers 
around the world, we have established key strategic 
locations, including in Bengaluru, Salt Lake City, Dallas, 
Singapore, Warsaw, Birmingham and Hyderabad. We 
continue to evaluate the expanded use of strategic locations, 
including cities in which we do not currently have a presence.
As of December 2024, 43% of our employees were working 
in strategic locations. We believe our investment in these 
strategic locations enables us to build centers of excellence 
around specific capabilities that support our business 
initiatives.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
7
Sustainability 
We have a long-standing commitment to sustainability. Our 
two priorities in this area are helping clients across industries 
decarbonize their businesses to support their transitions to a 
low-carbon economy (Climate Transition) and to advance 
solutions that expand access, increase affordability, and drive 
outcomes to support sustainable economic growth (Inclusive 
Growth). Our strategy is to advance these two priorities 
through our work with our clients, and with strategic 
partners whose strengths and areas of focus complement our 
own, as well as through our supply chain.
Our Sustainable Finance Group serves as the centralized 
group that drives our sustainability strategy and related 
efforts across our firm, including the commercial approach 
alongside our businesses, to advance Climate Transition and 
Inclusive Growth. Our sustainable finance-related efforts 
continue to evolve. For example, within Global Banking & 
Markets, we established the Sustainable Banking Group, a 
group focused on delivering analysis, advice, and capital 
solutions for clients focused on their sustainability objectives. 
Within Asset & Wealth Management, we provide clients 
sustainability-related capabilities, across public and private 
markets and open architecture, proprietary and third-party 
products, portfolio strategy and implementation, and 
specialist sustainability teams and strategies.
Our activities relating to sustainability present both financial 
and nonfinancial risks, and we have processes for managing 
these risks, similar to the other risks we face. We have 
integrated oversight of climate-related risks into our risk 
management governance structure, from senior management 
to our Board and its committees, including the Risk and 
Public Responsibilities committees. The Risk Committee of 
the Board oversees firmwide financial and nonfinancial risks, 
which include climate risk, and, as part of its oversight, 
receives updates on our risk management approach to climate 
risk. The Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board 
assists the Board in its oversight of our firmwide 
sustainability strategy and sustainability issues affecting us, 
including with respect to climate change. As part of its 
oversight, the Public Responsibilities Committee receives 
periodic updates on our sustainability strategy and 
disclosures, and also periodically reviews our governance and 
related policies and processes for climate and other 
sustainability-related matters. We have also implemented the 
Environmental & Social Due Diligence Guidelines to guide 
our overall risk-based due diligence approach when 
evaluating relevant transactions for environmental and social 
risks and impacts. 
Relevant employees also receive training with respect to 
environmental and social risks, including for sectors and 
industries that we believe have higher potential for these 
risks. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk 
Management — Other Risk Management — Climate-Related 
and Environmental Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7 of 
this Form 10-K for further information about our climate-
related and environmental risk management.
As a leading financial institution, we acknowledge the 
importance of Climate Transition and Inclusive Growth for 
our business. We have completed sustainability debt 
issuances, which align with our sustainable finance 
framework and fund a range of on-balance sheet sustainable 
finance activity. We believe we can advance sustainability by 
partnering with our clients across our businesses, including 
by developing new sustainability-linked financing solutions, 
offering strategic advice, or co-investing alongside our clients 
in energy companies. We have announced a target to deploy 
$750 billion in sustainable financing, investing and advisory 
activity by the beginning of 2030. As of December 2024, we 
achieved over 80% of that goal, with the majority dedicated 
to Climate Transition. 
With respect to Climate Transition, we have announced our 
goal to align our financing activities with a net-zero-by-2050 
pathway. We have an initial set of 2030 targets for our 
energy, power and auto manufacturing portfolios, three 
sectors where we see an opportunity to proactively engage 
our clients and investors, deploy capital required for 
transition, and invest in new commercial solutions to 
facilitate decarbonization in the real economy. Carbon 
neutrality is also a priority for the operation of our firm. We 
have been carbon neutral in our operations and business 
travel since 2015 through a combination of emissions 
reduction efforts and the procurement of Energy Attribute 
Certificates and third-party-verified carbon offsets. We have 
since expanded our operational carbon commitment to 
include our supply chain, prioritizing emissions reductions.  
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
8
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In addition to Climate Transition, our approach to 
sustainability also centers on Inclusive Growth where we seek 
to help drive solutions that expand access, increase 
affordability, and support outcomes to advance sustainable 
economic growth. Commercial solutions that seek to support 
Inclusive Growth include, among others, those of our Urban 
Investment Group and our Sustainable Investing Group. We 
also seek to support Inclusive Growth through our corporate 
engagement programs, such as 10,000 Small Businesses, 
10,000 Women and One Million Black Women. These efforts 
are further strengthened by strategic partnerships that we 
have established in areas where we have identified gaps or 
believe we are able to drive even greater impact through 
collaboration. We believe our ability to achieve our 
sustainability objectives is critically dependent on the 
strengths and talents of our people. See “Business — Human 
Capital Management” for information about our human 
capital management programs and policies.
Competition
The financial services industry and all of our businesses are 
intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our 
competitors provide investment banking, market-making and 
asset management services, private banking and lending, 
commercial lending, credit cards, transaction banking, 
deposit-taking and other banking products and services, and 
make investments in securities, commodities, derivatives, real 
estate, loans and other financial assets. Our competitors 
include brokers and dealers, investment banking firms, 
commercial banks, credit card issuers, insurance companies, 
investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds, private 
equity funds, private credit funds, merchant banks and 
financial technology and other internet-based companies. 
Some of our competitors operate globally and others 
regionally, and we compete based on a number of factors, 
including transaction execution, client experience, products 
and services, innovation, reputation and price. 
We have faced, and expect to continue to face, pressure to 
retain market share by committing capital to businesses or 
transactions on terms that offer returns that may not be 
commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate 
clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to 
participate in their loan facilities) from financial services 
firms in connection with investment banking and other 
assignments.
Consolidation and convergence have significantly increased 
the capital base and geographic reach of some of our 
competitors and have also hastened the globalization of the 
securities and other financial services markets. As a result, we 
have had to commit capital to support our international 
operations and to execute large global transactions. To 
capitalize on some of our most significant opportunities, we 
will have to compete successfully with financial institutions 
that are larger and have more capital and that may have a 
stronger local presence and longer operating history outside 
the U.S.
We also compete with smaller institutions that offer more 
targeted services, such as independent advisory firms. Some 
clients may perceive these firms to be less susceptible to 
potential conflicts of interest than we are, and, as described 
below, our ability to effectively compete with them could be 
affected by regulations and limitations on activities that 
apply to us but may not apply to them.
A number of our businesses are subject to intense price 
competition. Efforts by our competitors to gain market share 
have resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking, 
market-making, consumer, wealth management and asset 
management businesses. For example, the increasing volume 
of trades executed electronically, through the internet and 
through alternative trading systems, has increased the 
pressure on trading commissions, in that commissions for 
electronic trading are generally lower than those for non-
electronic trading. It appears that this trend toward low-
commission trading will continue. Price competition has also 
led to compression in the difference between the price at 
which a market participant is willing to sell an instrument 
and the price at which another market participant is willing 
to buy it (i.e., bid/offer spread), which has affected our 
market-making businesses. The increasing prevalence of 
passive investment strategies that typically have lower fees 
than other strategies we offer has affected the competitive 
and pricing dynamics for our asset management products and 
services. In addition, we believe that we will continue to 
experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in 
the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market 
share by further reducing prices, and as we enter into or 
expand our presence in markets that rely more heavily on 
electronic trading and execution. We and other banks also 
compete for deposits on the basis of the rates we offer. 
Higher short-term interest rates in recent years have resulted 
in and may continue to result in more intense competition in 
deposit pricing, as well as competition from non-deposit 
financial products. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
9
We also compete on the basis of the types of financial 
products and client experiences that we and our competitors 
offer. In some circumstances, our competitors may offer 
financial products that we do not offer and that our clients 
may prefer, including cryptocurrencies and other digital 
assets that we cannot or may choose not to provide. Our 
competitors may also develop technology platforms that 
provide a better client experience.
The provisions of the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the 
requirements promulgated by the Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) and other financial 
regulations could affect our competitive position to the 
extent that limitations on activities, increased fees and 
compliance costs or other regulatory requirements do not 
apply, or do not apply equally, to all of our competitors or 
are not implemented uniformly across different jurisdictions. 
For example, the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that 
prohibit proprietary trading and restrict investments in 
certain hedge and private equity funds differentiate between 
U.S.-based and non-U.S.-based banking organizations and 
give non-U.S.-based banking organizations greater flexibility 
to trade outside of the U.S. and to form and invest in funds 
outside the U.S. 
Likewise, the obligations with respect to derivative 
transactions under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act depend, 
in part, on the location of the counterparties to the 
transaction. The impact of regulatory developments on our 
competitive position has depended and will continue to 
depend to a large extent on the manner in which the required 
rulemaking and regulatory guidance evolve, the extent of 
international convergence, and the development of market 
practice and structures under the evolving regulatory regimes, 
as described further in “Regulation” below. 
We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining 
qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete 
effectively has depended and will continue to depend upon 
our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our 
existing employees and to continue to compensate employees 
competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on 
the compensation practices of large financial institutions, 
including in jurisdictions such as New York State where we 
are required to publish certain compensation information as 
part of the employee hiring process. Our pay practices and 
those of certain of our competitors are subject to review by, 
and the standards of, the FRB and other regulators inside and 
outside the U.S., including the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
in the U.K. We also compete for employees with institutions 
whose pay practices are not subject to regulatory oversight. 
See “Regulation — Compensation Practices” and “Risk 
Factors — Competition — Our businesses would be 
adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified 
employees” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further 
information about such regulation.
Regulation
As a participant in the global financial services industry, we 
are subject to extensive regulation and supervision 
worldwide. The regulatory regimes applicable to our 
operations have been, and continue to be, subject to 
significant changes.  
New regulations have been adopted or are being considered 
by regulators and policy makers worldwide, as described 
below. The impacts of any changes to the regulations 
affecting our businesses, including as a result of the proposals 
described below, are uncertain and will not be known until 
such changes are finalized and market practices and 
structures develop under the revised regulations. 
Group Inc. is a BHC under the U.S. Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and an FHC under amendments to the 
BHC Act effected by the U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 
1999 (GLB Act), and is subject to supervision and 
examination by the FRB, which is our primary regulator. 
Under the system of “functional regulation” established 
under the GLB Act, the primary regulators of our U.S. non-
bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those 
subsidiaries, with the FRB exercising a supervisory role. Such 
“functionally regulated” subsidiaries include broker-dealers 
and security-based swap dealers registered with the SEC, 
such as our principal U.S. broker-dealer, entities registered 
with or regulated by the CFTC with respect to futures-related 
and swaps-related activities and investment advisers 
registered with the SEC with respect to their investment 
advisory activities.
Our principal subsidiaries operating in the U.S. include GS 
Bank USA, Goldman Sachs & Co., LLC (GS&Co.), J. Aron 
& Company LLC (J. Aron) and Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management, L.P.
GS Bank USA is our principal U.S. bank subsidiary and is 
supervised and regulated by the FRB, the FDIC, the New 
York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) and 
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). GS Bank 
USA also has a London branch, which is regulated by the 
FCA and PRA. We conduct a number of our activities 
partially or entirely through GS Bank USA and its 
subsidiaries, including: corporate loans (including leveraged 
lending); securities-based and collateralized loans; credit card 
loans; residential mortgages; transaction banking; deposit-
taking; interest rate, credit, currency and other derivatives; 
and agency lending. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
10
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
GS&Co. is our principal U.S. broker-dealer and is registered 
as a broker-dealer, a security-based swap dealer, a municipal 
advisor and an investment adviser with the SEC and as a 
broker-dealer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. 
U.S. self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the 
NYSE, have adopted rules that apply to broker-dealers, such 
as GS&Co.  
Our principal subsidiaries operating in Europe include: 
Goldman Sachs International (GSI), Goldman Sachs 
International 
Bank 
(GSIB), 
Goldman 
Sachs 
Asset 
Management International (GSAMI), Goldman Sachs Bank 
Europe SE (GSBE), Goldman Sachs Asset Management B.V., 
and Goldman Sachs Paris Inc. et Cie (GSPIC). 
Our E.U. subsidiaries are subject to various E.U. regulations, 
as well as national laws, including those implementing 
European directives. GSBE is directly supervised by the 
European Central Bank (ECB) and additionally by BaFin and 
Deutsche Bundesbank in the context of the E.U. Single 
Supervisory Mechanism. GSBE engages in certain activities 
primarily in the E.U., including underwriting and market 
making in debt and equity securities and derivatives, 
investment, asset and wealth management services, deposit-
taking, lending (including securities lending), and financial 
advisory services. GSBE is also registered with the CFTC as a 
swap dealer and with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer 
and as a primary dealer for government bonds issued by E.U. 
sovereigns. Like our other foreign bank subsidiaries, GSBE is 
subject to limits on the nature and scope of its activities under 
the FRB’s Regulation K, including limits on its underwriting 
and market making in equity securities based on GSBE’s and/
or GS Bank USA’s capital.
GSPIC is an investment firm under the French Prudential 
Supervision and Resolution Authority and the French 
Financial Markets Authority. GSPIC’s activities include 
certain activities that GSBE is prevented from undertaking. 
GSPIC is subject to the E.U. Investment Firm Regulation, the 
prudential regime for E.U. investment firms. 
GSI is a U.K. broker-dealer and a designated investment firm, 
and GSIB is a U.K. bank. Both GSI and GSIB are regulated by 
the PRA and the FCA. As a designated investment firm, GSI 
is subject to prudential requirements similar to those 
applicable to banks, including capital and liquidity 
requirements. GSI provides broker-dealer services in and 
from the U.K. and is registered with the CFTC as a swap 
dealer and with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. 
GSIB engages in lending (including securities lending) and 
deposit-taking activities (including by taking retail deposits) 
and is a primary dealer for U.K. government bonds. GSI and 
GSIB maintain branches outside of the U.K. and are subject 
to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where they are 
located. 
Our principal subsidiary operating in Asia is Goldman Sachs 
Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL). GSJCL is our regulated Japanese 
broker-dealer subsidiary and is regulated by Japan’s 
Financial Services Agency, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the 
Bank of Japan and the Ministry of Finance, among others.
Banking Supervision and Regulation
The Basel Committee is the primary global standard setter 
for prudential bank regulation. However, the Basel 
Committee’s standards do not become effective in a 
jurisdiction until the relevant regulators have adopted rules 
to implement its standards. The implications of Basel 
Committee standards and related regulations for our 
businesses depend to a large extent on their implementation 
by the relevant regulators globally, and the market practices 
and structures that develop.
Capital and Liquidity Requirements. We and GS Bank 
USA are subject to risk-based regulatory capital and leverage 
requirements that are calculated in accordance with the 
regulations of the FRB (Capital Framework). The Capital 
Framework is largely based on the Basel Committee’s 
framework for strengthening the regulation, supervision and 
risk management of banks (Basel III) and also implements 
certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the U.S. 
federal bank regulatory agencies’ tailoring framework, we 
and GS Bank USA are subject to “Category I” standards 
because we have been designated as a global systemically 
important bank (G-SIB). Accordingly, we and GS Bank USA 
are “Advanced approach” banking organizations. Under the 
Capital Framework, we and GS Bank USA must meet specific 
regulatory capital requirements that involve quantitative 
measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet 
items. The sufficiency of our capital levels is also subject to 
qualitative judgments by regulators. We and GS Bank USA 
are also subject to liquidity requirements established by the 
U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies.
GSBE is subject to capital and liquidity requirements 
prescribed in the E.U. Capital Requirements Regulation, as 
amended (CRR), and the E.U. Capital Requirements 
Directive, as amended (CRD), which are largely based on 
Basel III. 
GSI and GSIB are subject to the U.K. capital and liquidity 
frameworks prescribed in the PRA Rulebook and the U.K. 
Capital Requirements Regulation, which are also largely 
based on Basel III and are generally aligned with the E.U. 
capital and liquidity frameworks. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
11
Risk-Based Capital Ratios. As Advanced approach 
banking organizations, we and GS Bank USA calculate risk-
based capital ratios in accordance with both the Standardized 
and Advanced Capital Rules. Both the Standardized and 
Advanced Capital Rules include minimum risk-based capital 
requirements and additional capital conservation buffer 
requirements that must be satisfied solely with Common 
Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital. Failure to satisfy a buffer 
requirement in full would result in constraints on capital 
distributions and discretionary executive compensation. The 
severity of the constraints would depend on the amount of 
the shortfall and the organization’s “eligible retained 
income,” defined as the greater of (i) net income for the four 
preceding quarters, net of distributions and associated tax 
effects not reflected in net income; and (ii) the average of net 
income over the preceding four quarters. For Group Inc., the 
capital conservation buffer requirements consist of a 2.5% 
buffer (under the Advanced Capital Rules), a stress capital 
buffer (SCB) (under the Standardized Capital Rules), and 
both a countercyclical buffer and the G-SIB surcharge (under 
both Capital Rules). For GS Bank USA, the capital 
conservation buffer requirements consist of a 2.5% buffer 
and the countercyclical capital buffer. 
In 2023, the FRB issued a proposal to implement a revised G-
SIB assessment methodology and to revise certain systemic 
indicators to be based on daily or monthly average values 
during each year, instead of year-end values. 
The SCB is based on the results of the Federal Reserve’s 
supervisory stress tests and our planned common stock 
dividends and can change significantly over time based on the 
results of the annual supervisory stress tests. See “Stress Tests 
and Capital Planning” below. The countercyclical capital 
buffer is designed to counteract systemic vulnerabilities and 
currently applies only to banking organizations subject to 
Category I, II or III standards, including us and GS Bank 
USA. Several other national supervisors also require 
countercyclical capital buffers. The G-SIB surcharge and 
countercyclical capital buffer applicable to us may change in 
the future, including due to additional guidance from our 
regulators and/or positional changes. As a result, the 
minimum capital ratios to which we are subject are likely to 
change over time.
The capital requirements applicable to GSBE, GSI and GSIB 
include both minimum requirements and buffers. See 
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition 
and 
Results 
of 
Operations 
— 
Capital 
Management and Regulatory Capital” in Part II, Item 7 of 
this Form 10-K and Note 20 to the consolidated financial 
statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for 
information about our capital ratios and those of GS Bank 
USA, GSBE, GSI and GSIB. 
The Basel Committee standards include guidelines for 
calculating incremental capital ratio requirements for 
banking institutions that are systemically significant from a 
domestic but not global perspective (D-SIBs). Depending on 
how these guidelines are implemented by national regulators, 
they may apply to certain subsidiaries of G-SIBs. These 
guidelines are in addition to the framework for G-SIBs, but 
are more principles-based. The U.S. federal bank regulatory 
agencies have not designated any D-SIBs. The CRD and CRR 
provide that institutions that are systemically important at 
the E.U. or member state level, known as other systemically 
important institutions (O-SIIs), may be subject to additional 
capital ratio requirements, according to their degree of 
systemic importance (O-SII buffers). BaFin has identified 
GSBE as an O-SII in Germany and set an O-SII buffer. 
In the U.K., the PRA has identified Goldman Sachs Group 
UK Limited (GSG UK), the parent company of GSI and GSIB, 
as an O-SII but has not applied an O-SII buffer. 
The Basel Committee has finalized revisions to the Basel III 
Capital Requirements (Basel III Revisions), and in 2023, the 
U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies proposed a rule 
implementing the Basel III Revisions, including the 
Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (FRTB). The 
FRTB, among other things, revises the standardized and 
internal model-based approaches used to calculate market 
risk requirements and clarifies the scope of positions subject 
to market risk capital requirements.  
The U.S. proposal has a three-year transition period for the 
calculation of Expanded Risk-Based approach risk-weighted 
assets (RWAs). The proposal includes the replacement of the 
Advanced approach with an Expanded Risk-Based approach, 
which eliminates the use of internal models to calculate 
RWAs for credit and operational risk. The proposal 
incorporates the application of the SCB requirements in the 
Expanded Risk-Based approach. The credit risk component 
of the Expanded Risk-Based approach would include new 
risk weights for many counterparty and exposure types, a 
revised collateral haircut approach for certain collateralized 
transactions and additional restrictions for recognizing 
collateral in certain securities financing transactions. Under 
the proposed rules, the RWAs for operational risk would be 
calculated primarily based on revenues and historical losses. 
In addition, the proposal introduces the FRTB, which would 
replace the market risk rule for both the Standardized and 
Expanded Risk-Based approaches and introduce a new credit 
valuation adjustment (CVA) risk RWA calculation for the 
Expanded Risk-Based approach. The FRB has indicated that 
it expects to work with the other U.S. federal bank regulatory 
agencies in 2025 on a revised proposal.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
12
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In 2024, the E.U. adopted rules to implement the Basel III 
Revisions through amendments to the CRR and the CRD, 
referred to as CRR III and CRD VI. The amendments include 
the FRTB rules, revised rules for credit risk capital, a new 
standardized approach for operational risk and CVA risk 
capital and a floor on internally modeled capital 
requirements at a percentage of the capital requirements 
under the standardized approach, commonly known as the 
“output floor.” Substantial parts of these rules became 
effective in January 2025, though certain provisions applied 
beginning in July 2024. The FRTB rules are currently 
expected to apply from January 2026. 
The PRA issued near final rules with a proposed effective 
date of January 1, 2027, implementing Basel III Revisions, 
including new rules covering the FRTB, credit risk, 
counterparty credit risk, CVA risk and operational risk for 
the U.K. Under the PRA near final rules, our U.K. 
subsidiaries are not expected to be subject to a floor on 
internally modeled capital requirements. 
The Basel Committee has published an updated securitization 
framework and a revised G-SIB assessment methodology. 
The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies’ July 2023 
proposal would implement the updated securitization 
framework. The updated securitization framework has been 
implemented in the E.U. and U.K.
The Basel Committee has also published a final standard on 
the prudential treatment of cryptoasset exposures. The Basel 
Committee contemplates that national regulators will have 
incorporated the standard into local capital requirements by 
January 1, 2026. U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies and 
E.U. and U.K. authorities have not yet proposed rules 
implementing the standards.
Leverage Ratios. Under the Capital Framework, we and GS 
Bank USA are subject to Tier 1 leverage ratios and 
supplementary leverage ratios (SLRs) established by the FRB. 
As a G-SIB, the SLR requirements applicable to us include 
both a minimum requirement and a buffer requirement, 
which operates in the same manner as the risk-based buffer 
requirements described above.  
GSBE and certain of our U.K. entities are also subject to 
requirements relating to leverage ratios, which are generally 
based on the Basel Committee leverage ratio standards.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition 
and 
Results 
of 
Operations 
— 
Capital 
Management and Regulatory Capital” in Part II, Item 7 of 
this Form 10-K and Note 20 to the consolidated financial 
statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for 
information about our and GS Bank USA’s Tier 1 leverage 
ratios and SLRs, and GSI’s leverage ratio.
Liquidity Ratios. The Basel Committee’s framework for 
liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring 
requires banking organizations to measure their liquidity 
against two specific liquidity tests: the Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). 
The LCR rule issued by the U.S. federal bank regulatory 
agencies and applicable to both us and GS Bank USA is 
generally consistent with the Basel Committee’s framework 
and is designed to ensure that a banking organization 
maintains an adequate level of unencumbered, high-quality 
liquid assets equal to or greater than the expected net cash 
outflows under an acute short-term liquidity stress scenario. 
We and GS Bank USA are required to maintain a minimum 
LCR of 100%. 
GSBE is subject to the LCR rule approved by the European 
Parliament and Council, and GSI and GSIB are subject to the 
U.K. regulatory authorities’ LCR rules, which are generally 
consistent with the Basel Committee’s framework. 
The NSFR is designed to promote medium- and long-term 
stable funding of the assets and off-balance sheet activities of 
banking organizations over a one-year time horizon. The 
Basel Committee’s NSFR framework requires banking 
organizations to maintain a minimum NSFR of 100%. We 
and GS Bank USA are subject to the U.S. NSFR rule. 
The CRR implements the NSFR for certain E.U. financial 
institutions, including GSBE. The NSFR requirement 
implemented in the U.K. is applicable to both GSI and GSIB.
The FRB’s enhanced prudential standards require BHCs with 
$100 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply 
with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management 
standards, which include maintaining a level of highly liquid 
assets based on projected funding needs for 30 days, and 
increased involvement by boards of directors in liquidity and 
overall risk management. Although the liquidity requirement 
under these rules has some similarities to the LCR, it is a 
separate requirement. GSBE also has its own liquidity 
planning process, which incorporates internally designed 
stress tests and those required under German regulatory 
requirements and the ECB Guide to Internal Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). GSI and GSIB have 
their own liquidity planning processes, which incorporate 
internally designed stress tests developed in accordance with 
the guidelines of the PRA’s ILAAP.
See “Available Information” below and “Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations — Risk Management — Overview and 
Structure of Risk Management” and “— Liquidity Risk 
Management — Liquidity Regulatory Framework” in Part II, 
Item 7 of this Form 10-K for information about the LCR and 
NSFR, as well as our risk management practices and 
liquidity. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
13
Stress 
Tests 
and 
Capital 
Planning. 
The 
FRB’s 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) is 
designed to ensure that large BHCs, including us, have 
sufficient capital to permit continued operations during times 
of economic and financial stress. As required by the FRB, we 
perform an annual capital stress test and incorporate the 
results into an annual capital plan, which we submit to the 
FRB for review. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital 
Management 
and 
Regulatory 
Capital 
— 
Capital 
Management — Capital Planning and Stress Testing Process” 
in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further information 
about our annual capital plan. As described in “Available 
Information” below, summary results of the annual stress test 
are published on our website. 
As part of the CCAR process, the FRB evaluates our plan to 
make capital distributions across a range of macroeconomic 
and company-specific assumptions, based on our and the 
FRB’s own stress tests. In December 2024 and February 2025, 
the FRB indicated that it intends to propose significant 
changes to the stress test framework in 2025 and, for the 2025 
stress test, take steps to reduce the volatility of results and to 
begin to improve model transparency. Also in December 
2024, trade groups representing major U.S. banks, including 
us, filed a lawsuit against the FRB concerning certain 
inadequacies with its stress testing process.
Under the FRB’s rule applicable to BHCs with $100 billion or 
more in total consolidated assets, including us, the SCB 
applies to the Standardized approach capital requirements. 
The SCB reflects stressed losses estimated under the 
supervisory severely adverse scenario of the CCAR stress 
tests, as calculated by the FRB, and includes four quarters of 
planned common stock dividends. The SCB, which is subject 
to a 2.5% floor, is generally effective on October 1 of each 
year and remains in effect until October 1 of the following 
year, unless it is reset in connection with the resubmission of 
a capital plan. See “Available Information” below and 
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition 
and 
Results 
of 
Operations 
— 
Capital 
Management and Regulatory Capital” in Part II, Item 7 of 
this Form 10-K for information about our SCB requirement.
The SCB rule requires a BHC to receive the FRB’s approval 
for any dividend, stock repurchase or other capital 
distribution, other than a capital distribution on a newly 
issued capital instrument, if the BHC is required to resubmit 
its capital plan, which may occur if the BHC determines there 
has been or will be a “material change” in its risk profile, 
financial condition or corporate structure since the plan was 
last submitted, or if the FRB directs the BHC to revise and 
resubmit its capital plan. 
U.S. depository institutions with total consolidated assets of 
$250 billion or more that are subsidiaries of U.S. G-SIBs, such 
as GS Bank USA, are required to submit annual company-run 
stress test results to the FRB. GSBE also has its own capital 
and stress testing process, which incorporates internally 
designed stress tests and those required under German 
regulatory requirements and the ECB Guide to Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). In addition, 
GSI and GSIB have their own capital planning and stress 
testing processes, which incorporate internally designed stress 
tests developed in accordance with the PRA’s ICAAP 
guidelines.
Limitations on the Payment of Dividends. U.S. federal 
and state laws impose limitations on the payment of 
dividends by U.S. depository institutions, such as GS Bank 
USA. In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid by 
GS Bank USA is limited to the lesser of the amounts 
calculated under a recent earnings test and an undivided 
profits test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may 
not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by the entity 
in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net 
income combined with the retained net income of the two 
preceding years, unless the entity obtains regulatory 
approval. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may 
not be paid in excess of the entity’s undivided profits 
(generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid 
out as dividends or transferred to surplus), unless the entity 
receives regulatory and stockholder approval. 
The applicable U.S. banking regulators have authority to 
prohibit or limit the payment of dividends if, in the banking 
regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute 
an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial 
condition of the banking organization.
Source of Strength. The Dodd-Frank Act requires BHCs to 
act as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries and 
to commit capital and financial resources to support those 
subsidiaries. This support may be required by the FRB at 
times when BHCs might otherwise determine not to provide 
it. Capital loans by a BHC to a U.S. subsidiary bank are 
subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain 
other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, if a 
BHC commits to a U.S. federal bank regulatory agency that it 
will maintain the capital of its bank subsidiary, whether in 
response to the FRB’s invoking its source-of-strength 
authority or in response to other regulatory measures, that 
commitment will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee for 
the BHC and the bank will be entitled to priority payment in 
respect of that commitment, ahead of other creditors of the 
BHC. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
14
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Transactions Between Affiliates. Transactions between 
GS Bank USA or its subsidiaries, including GSBE, and Group 
Inc. or its other subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to 
restrictions under the Federal Reserve Act and regulations 
issued by the FRB. These laws and regulations generally limit 
the types and amounts of transactions (such as loans and 
other credit extensions, including credit exposure arising 
from resale agreements, securities borrowing and derivative 
transactions, from GS Bank USA or its subsidiaries to Group 
Inc. or its other subsidiaries and affiliates and purchases of 
assets by GS Bank USA or its subsidiaries from Group Inc. or 
its other subsidiaries and affiliates) that may take place and 
generally require those transactions, to the extent permitted, 
to be on market terms or better to GS Bank USA or its 
subsidiaries. These laws and regulations generally do not 
apply to transactions between GS Bank USA and its 
subsidiaries. Similarly, German regulatory requirements 
provide that certain transactions between GSBE and GS Bank 
USA or its other affiliates, including Group Inc., must be on 
market terms and are subject to special internal approval 
requirements. PRA rules also provide requirements for 
transactions between GSI and GSIB and their respective 
affiliates.
Resolution and Recovery Plans. We are required by the 
FRB and the FDIC to submit a periodic plan for our rapid 
and orderly resolution in the event of material financial 
distress or failure (resolution plan). If these regulators jointly 
determine that an institution has failed to remediate 
identified deficiencies in its resolution plan or that its 
resolution plan, after any permitted resubmission, is not 
credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under 
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, they may jointly impose more 
stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or 
restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or may jointly 
order the institution to divest assets or operations, in order to 
facilitate orderly resolution in the event of failure. The FRB 
and FDIC require U.S. G-SIBs to submit resolution plans 
every two years (alternating between submissions of full 
plans 
and 
targeted 
plans 
that 
include 
only 
select 
information). We submitted our 2023 resolution plan, which 
was a full submission, in June 2023. In June 2024, the FRB 
and the FDIC provided feedback on our 2023 resolution plan 
and identified one shortcoming, other areas for additional 
focus to address resolution readiness and additional 
information required to be included in our 2025 resolution 
plan. In August 2024, we submitted a description of our key 
actions to address the shortcoming. Our next required 
submission is a targeted submission by July 1, 2025. See 
“Risk Factors — Legal and Regulatory — The application of 
Group Inc.’s proposed resolution strategy could result in 
greater losses for Group Inc.’s security holders” in Part I, 
Item 1A of this Form 10-K and “Available Information” in 
Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for further information about 
our resolution plan.
We are also required by the FRB to submit, on a periodic 
basis, a global recovery plan that outlines the steps that we 
could take to reduce risk, maintain sufficient liquidity and 
conserve capital in times of prolonged stress. Certain of our 
subsidiaries are also subject to similar recovery plan 
requirements in their local jurisdictions.
GS Bank USA is required to provide a resolution plan to the 
FDIC that must, among other things, demonstrate that it is 
adequately protected from risks arising from our other 
entities. GS Bank USA’s most recent resolution plan was 
submitted in December 2023. In June 2024, the FDIC adopted 
revisions to its rule that requires the submission of resolution 
plans by insured depository institutions (IDIs) with $50 
billion or more in total assets. These revisions modify the 
requirements regarding the content and timing of resolution 
submissions, as well as interim supplements to those 
submissions provided to the FDIC. IDIs with $100 billion or 
more in total assets, including GS Bank USA, are required to 
submit full resolution plans biennially. GS Bank USA’s next 
required full submission is due by July 1, 2026.
The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted rules 
imposing restrictions on qualified financial contracts (QFCs) 
entered into by G-SIBs. The rules are intended to facilitate 
the orderly resolution of a failed G-SIB by limiting the ability 
of the G-SIB to enter into a QFC unless (i) the counterparty 
waives certain default rights in such contract arising upon the 
entry of the G-SIB or one of its affiliates into resolution, (ii) 
the contract does not contain enumerated prohibitions on the 
transfer of such contract and/or any related credit 
enhancement, and (iii) the counterparty agrees that the 
contract will be subject to the special resolution regimes set 
forth in the Dodd-Frank Act orderly liquidation authority 
(OLA) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), 
described below. GS Bank USA has achieved compliance by 
adhering to the International Swaps and Derivatives 
Association Universal Resolution Stay Protocol (ISDA 
Universal Protocol) and International Swaps and Derivatives 
Association 2018 U.S. Resolution Stay Protocol (U.S. ISDA 
Protocol) described below.
Certain of our other subsidiaries also adhere to these 
protocols. The ISDA Universal Protocol imposes a stay on 
certain cross-default and early termination rights within 
standard ISDA derivative contracts and securities financing 
transactions between adhering parties in the event that one of 
them is subject to resolution in its home jurisdiction, 
including a resolution under OLA or the FDIA in the U.S. 
The U.S. ISDA Protocol, which was based on the ISDA 
Universal Protocol, was created to allow market participants 
to comply with the final QFC rules adopted by the federal 
bank regulatory agencies. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
15
The E.U. Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD), 
as amended by the BRRD II, establishes a framework for the 
recovery and resolution of financial institutions in the E.U., 
such as GSBE. The BRRD provides national supervisory 
authorities with tools and powers to pre-emptively address 
potential financial crises in order to promote financial 
stability and minimize taxpayers’ exposure to losses. The 
BRRD requires E.U. member states to grant certain 
resolution powers to national and, where relevant, E.U. 
resolution authorities, including the power to impose a 
temporary stay, and to recapitalize a failing entity by writing 
down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into 
equity. Financial institutions in the E.U. must provide that 
contracts governed by non-E.U. law recognize those 
temporary stay and bail-in powers unless doing so would be 
impracticable. GSBE is under the direct authority of the 
Single Resolution Board for resolution planning. E.U. law 
requires financial institutions in the E.U., including 
subsidiaries of non-E.U. groups, to submit recovery plans and 
to assist the relevant resolution authority in constructing 
resolution plans for the E.U. entities. GSBE’s primary 
regulator with respect to recovery planning is the ECB, and it 
is also regulated by BaFin and Deutsche Bundesbank.  
The U.K. Special Resolution Regime confers substantially the 
same powers on the Bank of England, as the U.K. resolution 
authority, and substantially the same requirements on U.K. 
financial institutions. Further, certain U.K. financial 
institutions, including GSI and GSIB, are required to meet the 
Bank of England’s expectations contained in the U.K. 
Resolution Assessment Framework, including with respect to 
loss absorbency, contractual stays, operational continuity 
and funding in resolution. They are also required by the PRA 
to submit solvent wind-down plans on how they could be 
wound down in a stressed environment. The PRA is also the 
regulatory authority in the U.K. that supervises recovery 
planning, and GSI and GSIB are each required to submit 
recovery plans to the PRA.
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC). The FRB’s TLAC 
rule, among other things, establishes minimum TLAC 
requirements and establishes minimum requirements for 
“eligible long-term debt” (i.e., debt that is unsecured, has a 
maturity of at least one year from issuance and satisfies 
certain additional criteria). In 2023, the FRB proposed to 
introduce a minimum denomination requirement for eligible 
long-term debt, among other changes.
The rule also prohibits a BHC that has been designated as a 
U.S. G-SIB from (i) guaranteeing subsidiaries’ liabilities that 
are subject to early termination provisions if the BHC enters 
into an insolvency or receivership proceeding, subject to an 
exception for guarantees permitted by rules of the U.S. 
federal bank regulatory agencies imposing restrictions on 
QFCs; (ii) incurring liabilities guaranteed by subsidiaries; (iii) 
issuing short-term debt to third parties; or (iv) entering into 
derivatives and certain other financial contracts with external 
counterparties.
Additionally, the rule caps, at 5% of the value of the parent 
company’s eligible TLAC, the amount of unsecured non-
contingent third-party liabilities that are not eligible long-
term debt that could rank equally with or junior to eligible 
long-term debt.
The CRR, the BRRD and U.K. financial services regime also 
impose minimum TLAC requirements on G-SIBs. For 
example, the CRR requires E.U. subsidiaries of a non-E.U. G-
SIB that exceed the threshold of 5% of the G-SIB’s RWAs, 
operating income or leverage exposure, such as GSBE, to 
meet requirements for the issuance of instruments to 
qualifying affiliates (internal TLAC) in order to be able to 
transfer losses or otherwise recapitalize those subsidiaries. 
Under the U.K. financial services regime, GSG UK exceeds 
the applicable thresholds and therefore, it is subject to 
internal TLAC requirements.
The CRD requires a non-E.U. group with more than €40 
billion of assets in the E.U., such as us, to have an E.U. 
intermediate holding company (E.U. IHC) if it has, as in our 
case, two or more of certain types of E.U. financial institution 
subsidiaries, including broker-dealers and banks. The ECB 
granted GSBE and GSPIC an exemption to operate under two 
E.U. IHCs. The CRR requires E.U. IHCs to satisfy capital 
and liquidity requirements, a minimum requirement for own 
funds and eligible liabilities (MREL), and certain other 
prudential requirements at a consolidated level. The U.K. has 
not implemented a similar requirement to establish an IHC; 
however, the PRA requires that certain U.K. financial holding 
companies or a designated U.K. group entity be responsible 
for the U.K. group’s regulatory compliance. We have 
designated GSI for that responsibility.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
16
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The BRRD II and the U.K. resolution regime subject 
institutions to a MREL, which is generally consistent with 
the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB’s) TLAC standard. The 
Single 
Resolution 
Board 
imposes 
internal 
MREL 
requirements applicable to GSBE. GSI is required to maintain 
a minimum level of internal MREL and provide the Bank of 
England the right to exercise bail-in triggers over certain 
intercompany regulatory capital and senior debt instruments 
issued by GSI. These triggers enable the Bank of England to 
write down such instruments or convert such instruments to 
equity. The triggers can be exercised by the Bank of England 
if it determines that GSI has reached the point of non-
viability and the FRB and the FDIC have not objected to the 
bail-in or if Group Inc. enters bankruptcy or similar 
proceedings. 
Insolvency of a BHC or IDI. The Dodd-Frank Act created a 
resolution regime, OLA, for BHCs and their affiliates that are 
systemically important. Under OLA, the FDIC may be 
appointed as receiver for the systemically important 
institution and its failed non-bank subsidiaries if, upon the 
recommendation of applicable regulators, the U.S. Secretary 
of the Treasury determines, among other things, that the 
institution is in default or in danger of default, that the 
institution’s failure would have serious adverse effects on the 
U.S. financial system and that resolution under OLA would 
avoid or mitigate those effects. 
If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under OLA, then the 
powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of 
creditors and other parties who have dealt with the 
institution, would be determined under OLA, and not under 
the bankruptcy or insolvency law that would otherwise 
apply. The powers of the receiver under OLA are generally 
based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository 
institutions under the FDIA, described below. 
Substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist between 
OLA and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, including the right of 
the FDIC under OLA to disregard the strict priority of 
creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an 
administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ 
claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in 
bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to 
transfer claims to a “bridge” entity. In addition, OLA limits 
the ability of creditors to enforce certain contractual cross-
defaults against affiliates of the institution in receivership. 
The FDIC has issued a notice that it would likely resolve a 
failed FHC by transferring its assets to a “bridge” holding 
company under its “single point of entry” or “SPOE” strategy 
pursuant to OLA.
Under the FDIA, if the FDIC is appointed as conservator or 
receiver for an IDI such as GS Bank USA, upon its insolvency 
or in certain other events, the FDIC has broad powers, 
including the power: 
• To transfer any of the IDI’s assets and liabilities to a new 
obligor, including a newly formed “bridge” bank, without 
the approval of the depository institution’s creditors; 
• To enforce the IDI’s contracts pursuant to their terms 
without regard to any provisions triggered by the 
appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or
• To repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which 
the IDI is a party, the performance of which is determined 
by the FDIC to be burdensome and the repudiation or 
disaffirmance of which is determined by the FDIC to 
promote the orderly administration of the IDI.
In addition, the claims of holders of domestic deposit 
liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses 
against an IDI would be afforded a priority over other 
general unsecured claims, including deposits at non-U.S. 
branches and claims of debtholders of the IDI, in the 
“liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by 
any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever 
sought to repudiate any debt obligations of GS Bank USA, 
the debtholders (other than depositors at U.S. branches) 
would be treated differently from, and could receive, if 
anything, substantially less than, the depositors at U.S. 
branches of GS Bank USA. 
Deposit Insurance. Deposits at GS Bank USA have the 
benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The 
FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on 
IDIs. GS Bank USA’s assessment (subject to adjustment by 
the FDIC) is currently based on its average total consolidated 
assets less its average tangible equity during the assessment 
period, its supervisory ratings and specified forward-looking 
financial measures used to calculate the assessment rate. In 
addition, the FDIC must recover, by special assessment, 
losses to the FDIC deposit insurance fund as a result of the 
FDIC’s use of the systemic risk exception to the least cost 
resolution test under the FDIA. See “Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations — Results of Operations — Operating 
Expenses” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for 
information about the estimated impact of the FDIC special 
assessment fee. The deposits of GSBE are covered by the 
German statutory deposit protection program to the extent 
provided by law. In addition, GSBE has elected to participate 
in the German voluntary deposit protection program which 
provides further insurance for certain eligible deposits 
beyond the coverage of the German statutory deposit 
program. Eligible deposits at GSIB and the London branch of 
GS Bank USA are covered by the U.K. Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme up to the applicable limits.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
17
Prompt Corrective Action. The U.S. Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA) 
requires the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies to take 
“prompt corrective action” in respect of depository 
institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. 
FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured 
banks, such as GS Bank USA: well-capitalized, adequately 
capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized 
and critically undercapitalized. 
An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a 
capital category that is lower than is indicated by its capital 
ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound 
condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination 
rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA imposes 
progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, 
management and capital distributions, as the capital category 
of an institution declines. Failure to meet the capital 
requirements could also require a depository institution to 
raise 
capital. 
Ultimately, 
critically 
undercapitalized 
institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or 
conservator, as described in “Insolvency of an IDI or a BHC” 
above.
The prompt corrective action regulations do not apply to 
BHCs. However, the FRB is authorized to take appropriate 
action at the BHC level, based upon the undercapitalized 
status of the BHC’s depository institution subsidiaries. In 
certain instances, relating to an undercapitalized depository 
institution subsidiary, the BHC would be required to 
guarantee 
the 
performance 
of 
the 
undercapitalized 
subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and might be liable for 
civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on 
that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy 
of the BHC, the guarantee would take priority over the 
BHC’s general unsecured creditors, as described in “Source of 
Strength” above.
Volcker Rule and Other Restrictions on Activities. As a 
BHC, we are subject to limitations on the types of business 
activities in which we may engage. 
Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule prohibits “proprietary 
trading,” but permits activities such as underwriting, market 
making and risk-mitigation hedging, requires an extensive 
compliance program and includes additional reporting and 
record-keeping requirements. 
In addition, the Volcker Rule limits the sponsorship of, and 
investment in, “covered funds” (as defined in the rule) by 
banking entities, including us. It also limits certain types of 
transactions between us and our sponsored and advised 
funds, similar to the limitations on transactions between 
depository institutions and their affiliates. Covered funds 
include our private equity funds, certain of our credit and real 
estate funds, our hedge funds and certain other investment 
structures. The limitation on investments in covered funds 
requires us to limit our investment in each such fund to 3% 
or less of the fund’s net asset value, and to limit our aggregate 
investment in all such funds to 3% or less of our Tier 1 
capital.
Other Restrictions. FHCs generally can engage in a broader 
range of financial and related activities than are otherwise 
permissible for BHCs as long as they continue to meet the 
eligibility requirements for FHCs. The broader range of 
permissible activities for FHCs includes underwriting, dealing 
and making markets in securities and making investments in 
non-FHCs (merchant banking activities). In addition, certain 
FHCs, including us, are permitted to engage in certain 
commodities activities in the U.S. that may otherwise be 
impermissible for BHCs, so long as the assets held pursuant 
to these activities do not equal 5% or more of their 
consolidated assets. 
The FRB, however, has the authority to limit an FHC’s 
ability to conduct activities that would otherwise be 
permissible, and will likely do so if the FHC does not 
satisfactorily meet certain requirements of the FRB. For 
example, if an FHC or any of its U.S. depository institution 
subsidiaries ceases to maintain its status as well-capitalized or 
well-managed, the FRB may impose corrective capital and/or 
managerial requirements, as well as additional limitations or 
conditions. If the deficiencies persist, the FHC may be 
required to divest its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries 
or to cease engaging in activities other than the business of 
banking and certain closely related activities. 
In addition, we are required to obtain prior FRB approval 
before certain acquisitions and before engaging in certain 
banking and other financial activities both within and outside 
the U.S.
U.S. G-SIBs, like us, are also required to comply with a rule 
regarding single counterparty credit limits, which imposes 
more stringent requirements for credit exposures to major 
financial institutions. 
The New York State banking law imposes lending limits 
(which take into account credit exposure from derivative 
transactions) and other requirements that have in the past 
impacted and could in the future impact the manner and 
scope of GS Bank USA’s activities.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
18
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have issued 
guidance that focuses on transaction structures and risk 
management frameworks and that outlines high-level 
principles for safe-and-sound leveraged lending, including 
underwriting standards, valuation and stress testing. This 
guidance has, among other things, limited the percentage 
amount of debt that can be included in certain transactions. 
As a German credit institution, GSBE is subject to Volcker 
Rule-type prohibitions under German banking law and 
regulations because its financial assets exceed certain 
thresholds. Prohibited activities include (i) proprietary 
trading, (ii) high-frequency trading at a German trading 
venue, and (iii) lending and guarantee businesses with 
German hedge funds, German funds of hedge funds or any 
non-German substantially leveraged alternative investment 
funds, unless an exclusion or an exemption applies.  
As part of its implementation of the Basel III Revisions, the 
E.U. introduced new restrictions on the provision of certain 
“core” banking services (i.e., deposit-taking, lending and the 
provision of commitments and guarantees) cross-border into 
the E.U. Contracts in place before June 2026 will be subject 
to a “grandfathering” provision and new core banking 
services will need to be executed out of our subsidiaries 
established in the E.U., including GSBE.  
U.K. banks that have over £35 billion of core retail deposits 
are required to separate their retail banking services from 
their investment and international banking activities, 
commonly known as “ring-fencing.” GSIB is not currently 
subject to the ring-fencing requirement. 
CRA. In 2023, GS Bank USA ceased to be assessed as a 
“wholesale bank” for CRA and New York Community 
Reinvestment Act (NYCRA) compliance purposes. GS Bank 
USA instead adopted a strategic plan that was approved by 
the FRB and NYDFS. The 2023 strategic plan will be in effect 
through 2028. While the plan is in effect, its terms will not be 
impacted by the revised federal CRA regulations, jointly 
published by the FDIC, FRB, and OCC in 2023. The revised 
federal CRA regulations tailor CRA evaluations to bank size 
and type, with many of the changes applying only to banks 
with over $2 billion in assets and several applying only to 
banks with over $10 billion in assets, including GS Bank 
USA. A court has issued a preliminary injunction enjoining 
the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies from enforcing the 
revised regulations pending resolution of the lawsuit 
challenging the regulations.
The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or 
programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an 
institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and 
services that it believes are best suited to its particular 
community, but depository institutions may only receive 
CRA credit for certain types of lending and for lending, 
investments 
and 
services 
that 
support 
community 
development, as defined in the CRA regulations. The CRA 
and its regulations require each appropriate federal bank 
regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a 
depository institution, to assess such institution’s record of 
meeting the credit needs of the communities served by that 
institution, including the needs of low- and moderate-income 
borrowers and neighborhoods, and to make such assessment 
available to the public.
The assessment also is part of the FRB’s consideration of 
applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another 
banking institution or its holding company, to assume 
deposits of or acquire assets from another depository 
institution, to establish a new domestic branch office that 
will raise deposits, or to relocate an office. In the case of a 
BHC applying for approval to acquire a bank or another 
BHC, the FRB will assess the records of performance under 
the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction, and such 
records may be the basis for denying the application. 
If GS Bank USA fails to maintain at least a “satisfactory” 
rating under the CRA, we would be subject to restrictions on 
certain new activities and acquisitions.
We are also subject to provisions of the New York Banking 
Law that impose continuing and affirmative obligations upon 
New York State-chartered banks, such as GS Bank USA, to 
serve the credit needs of its local community (NYCRA). Such 
obligations are substantially similar to those imposed by the 
CRA. The NYCRA requires the NYDFS to make a periodic 
written assessment of an institution’s compliance with the 
NYCRA, and to make such assessment available to the 
public. The NYCRA also requires the NYDFS to consider the 
NYCRA rating when reviewing an application to engage in 
certain transactions, including mergers, asset purchases and 
the establishment of domestic branch offices, and provides 
that such assessment may serve as a basis for the denial of 
any such application.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
19
Broker-Dealer and Securities Regulation
Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, including GS&Co., are 
subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities 
business, including sales methods, trade practices, the use and 
safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital structure, 
record-keeping, the financing of clients’ purchases, and the 
conduct of directors, officers and employees. In the U.S., the 
SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration 
of the federal securities laws. 
U.S. state securities and other U.S. regulators also have 
regulatory or oversight authority over GS&Co. For a 
description of net capital requirements applicable to 
GS&Co., see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital 
Management and Regulatory Capital — Subsidiary Capital 
Requirements — U.S. Regulated Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries” 
in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
The SEC requires lenders of securities to provide the material 
terms of securities lending transactions to FINRA and for 
FINRA to make certain terms publicly available. Reporting 
under this requirement will begin in January 2026.
The SEC requires broker-dealers to act in the best interest of 
their retail customers. SEC rules require broker-dealers to 
provide a standardized, short-form disclosure highlighting 
services offered, applicable standards of conduct, fees and 
costs, the differences between brokerage and advisory 
services, and any conflicts of interest. In addition, several 
states have adopted or proposed adopting uniform fiduciary 
duty standards applicable to broker-dealers.
The SEC has proposed four rules to reform the U.S. equity 
market structure, two of which have been adopted. In 2024, 
the SEC adopted a rule, effective December 2025, to revise 
and expand reporting and disclosure requirements relating to 
execution quality. In 2024, the SEC also adopted a rule to 
update the minimum pricing increments, with variable price 
increments based on the trading characteristics of stocks. In 
December 2024, the SEC stayed the implementation of this 
rule, which would apply starting in November 2025, pending 
the outcome of litigation challenging the rule.
The SEC, FINRA and regulators in various non-U.S. 
jurisdictions 
have 
imposed 
both 
conduct-based 
and 
disclosure-based requirements with respect to research 
reports and research analysts and may impose additional 
regulations.
The SEC prohibits participants involved in the creation of 
asset-backed securities, including any underwriter, placement 
agent, initial purchaser or sponsor of an asset-backed security 
(or any affiliate or subsidiary), from engaging in any 
transaction that involves or results in a material conflict of 
interest between the securitization participant and an investor 
in an asset-backed security, including reducing its exposure to 
the asset-backed securities, subject to certain exceptions.
The SEC requires that SEC-registered clearing agencies set up 
policies and procedures that would, among other things, 
require many market participants to clear cash and 
repurchase transactions involving U.S. Treasury securities 
through such a clearing agency by December 2025 for cash 
transactions and by June 2026 for repurchase transactions.
GS&Co. and other U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to rules 
adopted by U.S. federal agencies pursuant to the Dodd-Frank 
Act that require any person who organizes or initiates certain 
asset-backed securities transactions to retain a portion 
(generally, at least five percent) of any credit risk that the 
person conveys to a third party. For certain securitization 
transactions, retention by third-party purchasers may satisfy 
this requirement. 
In Europe, we provide broker-dealer services, including 
through GSBE, GSPIC and GSI, that are subject to oversight 
by European and national regulators. These services are 
regulated in accordance with E.U., U.K. and other national 
laws and regulations. These laws require, among other 
things, compliance with certain capital adequacy and 
liquidity standards, customer protection requirements and 
market conduct and trade reporting rules. Certain of our 
European subsidiaries are also regulated by the securities, 
derivatives and commodities exchanges of which they are 
members.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
20
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In the E.U. and the U.K., the Markets in Financial 
Instruments Directives (MiFID II) and the Markets in 
Financial Instruments Regulations (MiFIR) (as amended 
from time to time, including the proposed amendments to 
MiFID II and MiFIR), have established trading venue 
categories for the purposes of discharging the obligation to 
trade OTC derivatives on a trading platform, established 
enhanced pre- and post-trade transparency covering a wide 
range of financial instruments, placed volume caps on non-
transparent liquidity trading for equities trading venues, 
limited the use of broker-dealer equities crossing networks 
and created a regime for systematic internalizers in certain 
financial instruments (which are investment firms that 
execute transactions outside a trading venue). Additional 
control requirements apply to algorithmic trading, high 
frequency trading and direct electronic access. Commodities 
trading firms are required to calculate their positions and 
adhere to specific position limits. MiFID II and MiFIR also 
require transaction reporting, transparency on costs and 
charges to clients for portfolio management and investment 
advice services, restrictions on the way investment managers 
can pay for the receipt of investment research, rules limiting 
the payment and receipt of soft commissions and other forms 
of inducements, and rules addressing bundling for broker-
dealers between execution and other major services. Certain 
of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, including GSBE, GSI and GSIB, 
are subject to E.U. and U.K. regulation applicable to 
securitization activities, which will require them to conduct 
upfront due diligence and ongoing monitoring in connection 
with their investment in securitization positions and may 
impose ongoing risk retention and transparency requirements 
where they are acting as a sponsor, original lender or 
originator in respect of any E.U. or U.K. securitizations.
GSJCL, our regulated Japanese broker-dealer, is subject to 
capital requirements imposed by Japan’s Financial Services 
Agency. GSJCL is also regulated by the Tokyo Stock 
Exchange, the Bank of Japan and the Ministry of Finance, 
among others.
The Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, the 
China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Reserve Bank 
of India, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the 
Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the 
Australian Securities Exchange, the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service and the 
Central Bank of Brazil, among others, regulate various of our 
subsidiaries and also have capital standards and other 
requirements comparable to the rules of the U.S. regulators. 
Our exchange-based market-making activities are subject to 
extensive regulation by a number of securities exchanges. As 
a market maker on exchanges, we are required to maintain 
orderly markets in the securities to which we are assigned.
Swaps, Derivatives and Commodities Regulation
The commodity futures, commodity options and swaps 
industry in the U.S. is subject to regulation under the U.S. 
Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). The CFTC is the U.S. 
federal agency charged with the administration of the CEA. 
In addition, the SEC is the U.S. federal agency charged with 
the regulation of security-based swaps. The rules and 
regulations of various self-regulatory organizations, such as 
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other futures exchanges 
and the National Futures Association (NFA), also govern 
commodity futures, commodity options and swaps activities. 
The terms “swaps” and “security-based swaps” include a 
wide variety of derivative instruments in addition to those 
conventionally referred to as swaps (including certain 
forward contracts and options), and relate to a wide variety 
of underlying assets or obligations, including currencies, 
commodities, interest or other monetary rates, yields, indices, 
securities, credit events, loans and other financial obligations.
CFTC rules require registration of swap dealers, mandatory 
clearing and execution of interest rate and credit default 
swaps and real-time public reporting and adherence to 
business conduct standards for all in-scope swaps. A number 
of 
these 
requirements, 
particularly 
those 
regarding 
recordkeeping and reporting, also apply to transactions that 
do not involve a registered swap dealer. GS&Co. and other 
subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, GSBE, GSI and J. 
Aron, are registered with the CFTC as swap dealers. The 
CFTC has rules establishing capital requirements for swap 
dealers that are not subject to the capital rules of a prudential 
regulator, such as the FRB. The CFTC also has financial 
reporting requirements for covered swap entities and capital 
rules for CFTC-registered futures commission merchants that 
provide explicit capital requirements for proprietary 
positions in swaps and security-based swaps that are not 
cleared by a clearing organization. Certain of our registered 
swap dealers, including J. Aron, are subject to the CFTC’s 
capital requirements.
Our affiliates registered as swap dealers are subject to the 
margin rules issued by the CFTC (in the case of our non-bank 
swap dealers) and the FRB (in the case of GS Bank USA and 
GSBE). Inter-affiliate transactions under the CFTC and FRB 
margin rules are generally exempt from initial margin 
requirements.
Our affiliates registered as swap dealers are also subject to 
NFA regulation, including requirements pertaining to 
cybersecurity and supervision, and the NFA examines them 
for compliance with these requirements as well as compliance 
with CFTC rules. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
21
SEC rules govern the registration and regulation of security-
based swap dealers. Security-based swaps are defined as 
swaps on single securities, single loans or narrow-based 
baskets or indices of securities. The SEC has adopted a 
number of rules for security-based swap dealers, including (i) 
capital, margin and segregation requirements; (ii) record-
keeping, financial reporting and notification requirements; 
(iii) business conduct standards; (iv) regulatory and public 
trade reporting; and (v) the application of risk mitigation 
techniques to uncleared portfolios of security-based swaps. 
GS&Co., GS Bank USA, GSI, GSBE and Goldman Sachs 
Financial Markets, L.P. (GSFM) are registered with the SEC 
as security-based swap dealers and subject to the SEC’s 
regulations regarding security-based swaps. The SEC has 
proposed additional regulations regarding security-based 
swaps that would, among other things, require public 
reporting of large positions in security-based swaps.
GS Bank USA and GSBE are also subject to the FRB’s swaps 
margin rules. These rules require the exchange of initial and 
variation margin in connection with transactions in swaps 
and security-based swaps that are not cleared through a 
registered or exempt clearinghouse. GS Bank USA and GSBE 
are required to post and collect margin in connection with 
transactions with swap dealers, security-based swap dealers, 
major swap participants and major security-based swap 
participants, or financial end users.
The CFTC and the SEC have adopted rules relating to cross-
border regulation of swaps and security-based swaps, and 
business conduct and registration requirements. The CFTC 
and the SEC have entered into agreements with certain non-
U.S. regulators regarding the cross-border regulation of 
derivatives and the mutual recognition of cross-border 
execution facilities and clearinghouses, and have approved 
substituted compliance with certain non-U.S. regulations 
related to certain business conduct requirements and margin 
rules, among other requirements. The U.S. prudential 
regulators have not yet made a determination with respect to 
substituted compliance for transactions subject to non-U.S. 
margin rules. 
Similar types of regulation have been proposed or adopted in 
jurisdictions outside the U.S., including in the E.U. and 
Japan. Under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation 
(EMIR), for example, the E.U. and the U.K. have established 
regulatory requirements relating to portfolio reconciliation 
and reporting, clearing certain OTC derivatives and 
margining for uncleared derivatives activities. In addition, 
under the European Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive and Regulation, transactions in certain types of 
derivatives are required to be executed on regulated 
platforms or exchanges.
The CFTC has adopted rules that limit the size of positions 
in physical commodity derivatives that can be held by any 
entity, or any group of affiliates or other parties trading 
under common ownership or control. The CFTC position 
limits apply to futures on physical commodities and options 
on such futures, apply to both physically and cash settled 
positions and to swaps that are economically equivalent to 
such futures and options. The position limit rules initially 
impose limits in the spot month only (i.e., during the delivery 
period for the physical commodities, which is typically a 
period of several days). 
J. Aron is authorized by the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC) to sell wholesale physical power at 
market-based rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, 
J. Aron is subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Power 
Act and FERC regulations and to the oversight of FERC. As a 
result of our investing activities, Group Inc. is also an 
“exempt holding company” under the U.S. Public Utility 
Holding Company Act of 2005 and applicable FERC rules.
In addition, as a result of our power-related and commodities 
activities, we are subject to energy, environmental and other 
governmental laws and regulations, as described in “Risk 
Factors — Legal and Regulatory — Our commodities 
activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, 
subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain 
potential risks, including environmental, reputational and 
other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and 
costs” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.
GS&Co. is registered with the CFTC as a futures commission 
merchant, and several of our subsidiaries, including GS&Co., 
are registered with the CFTC and act as commodity pool 
operators and commodity trading advisors. GSFM is 
registered with the SEC as an OTC derivatives dealer.
Asset 
Management 
and 
Wealth 
Management 
Regulation
Our asset management and wealth management businesses 
are subject to extensive oversight by regulators around the 
world relating to, among other things, the fair treatment of 
clients, safeguarding of client assets, offerings of funds, 
marketing activities, transactions among affiliates and our 
management of client funds. 
The federal securities laws impose fiduciary duties on 
investment advisers, including GS&Co., Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management, L.P. and our other U.S. registered 
investment adviser subsidiaries, and SEC rules prescribe 
mandatory disclosures.
The SEC requires certain institutional investment managers 
that meet or exceed certain specified reporting thresholds to 
report on a monthly basis specific short position data and 
short activity data for equity securities. Reporting under this 
rule was required beginning in January 2025.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
22
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In 2024, the SEC issued guidance addressing the rules 
governing 
liquidity 
risk 
management 
of 
open-end 
management investment companies, such as mutual funds, 
and adopted amendments to the reporting requirements for 
certain registered investment companies, requiring such 
investment companies to, among other things, file reports 
about their portfolios and each of their portfolio holdings on 
a monthly basis within 30 days of the end of each month 
(compared to 60 days of the end of the fiscal quarter under 
the previous rule) and, for open-end management investment 
companies such as mutual funds, to identify and provide 
certain information about the service providers used to fulfill 
the rules governing liquidity risk management. Compliance 
with these amendments is required by November 17, 2025. 
Timely compliance with these accelerated or new reporting 
requirements will require us to enhance systems and 
disclosure controls and procedures.
Certain of our European subsidiaries, including GSBE in the 
E.U. and GSAMI in the U.K., are subject to MiFID II and/or 
related regulations (including the U.K. legislation making 
such regulations part of U.K. law), which govern the 
approval, 
organizational, 
marketing 
and 
reporting 
requirements of E.U. or U.K.-based investment managers and 
the ability of investment fund managers located outside the 
E.U. or the U.K. to access those markets. Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management BV is subject to similar requirements as a 
management company licensed under the E.U. Undertakings 
for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) 
Directive and the E.U. Alternative Investment Fund 
Managers (AIFM) Directive with additional authorizations 
for certain activities regulated under MiFID II. Our asset 
management business in the E.U. and the U.K. significantly 
depends on our ability to delegate parts of our activities to 
other affiliates.
GSAMI is also subject to the prudential regime for U.K. 
investment firms, the Investment Firms Prudential Regime, 
which governs the prudential requirements for U.K. 
investment firms prudentially regulated by the FCA.
Consumer Regulation
Our U.S. consumer-oriented activities are subject to 
supervision and regulation by the CFPB with respect to 
federal consumer protection laws, including laws relating to 
fair lending and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or 
abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or 
provision of consumer financial products and services. Our 
consumer-oriented activities are also subject to various state 
and local consumer protection laws, rules and regulations, 
which, among other things, impose obligations relating to 
marketing, origination, servicing and collections activities in 
our consumer businesses. In addition, our U.K. consumer 
deposit-taking activities are subject to U.K. consumer 
protection laws and regulations.
Compensation Practices
Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the 
FRB and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and 
employees, by other regulatory bodies worldwide. 
The FSB has released standards for implementation by local 
regulators 
that 
are 
designed 
to 
encourage 
sound 
compensation practices at banks and other financial 
companies. The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have 
also provided guidance designed to ensure that incentive 
compensation arrangements at banking organizations take 
into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound 
practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key 
principles 
with 
respect 
to 
incentive 
compensation 
arrangements: (i) the arrangements should provide employees 
with incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial 
results in a manner that does not encourage employees to 
expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) the 
arrangements should be compatible with effective controls 
and risk management; and (iii) the arrangements should be 
supported by strong corporate governance. The guidance 
provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive 
compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the 
organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability 
to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance 
also notes that enforcement actions may be taken against a 
banking 
organization 
if 
its 
incentive 
compensation 
arrangements or related risk management, control or 
governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety 
and soundness. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires U.S. financial regulators, 
including the FRB and SEC, to adopt rules on incentive-based 
payment arrangements at specified regulated entities having 
at least $1 billion in total assets. The U.S. financial regulators 
proposed revised rules in 2016, which have not been finalized. 
In accordance with an SEC rule, securities exchanges have 
adopted rules mandating, in the case of a restatement, the 
recovery 
or 
“clawback” 
of 
excess 
incentive-based 
compensation paid to current or former executive officers 
and requiring listed issuers to disclose any recovery analysis 
where recovery is triggered by a restatement.
The NYDFS’ guidance emphasizes that any incentive 
compensation arrangements tied to employee performance 
indicators at banking institutions regulated by the NYDFS, 
including GS Bank USA, must be subject to effective risk 
management, oversight and control.
In the E.U., certain provisions in the CRR and CRD are 
designed to meet the FSB’s compensation standards. These 
provisions limit the ratio of variable to fixed compensation of 
all employees at GSBE and of certain employees at our other 
operating subsidiaries in the E.U., including those employees 
identified as having a material impact on the risk profile of 
regulated entities. CRR II and CRD V amended certain 
aspects of these rules, including, by increasing minimum 
variable compensation deferral periods. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
23
The E.U. and the U.K. have each also introduced investment 
firm regimes, including rules regulating compensation for 
certain persons providing services to certain investment 
funds. 
Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Bribery Rules and 
Regulations
The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, as amended (BSA), including by 
the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Anti-Money 
Laundering Act of 2020 (AMLA), contains anti-money 
laundering and financial transparency laws and authorizes or 
mandates the promulgation of various regulations applicable 
to financial institutions, including standards for verifying 
client identification at account opening, and obligations to 
monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities. 
Through these and other provisions, the BSA seeks, among 
other things, to promote the identification of parties that may 
be involved in terrorism, money laundering or other 
suspicious activities. 
The AMLA was intended to comprehensively reform and 
modernize U.S. anti-money laundering laws. Among other 
things, the AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-
money laundering compliance for financial institutions; 
requires the U.S. Department of the Treasury to periodically 
promulgate priorities for anti-money laundering and 
countering 
the 
financing 
of 
terrorism; 
requires 
the 
development of standards by the U.S. Department of the 
Treasury for testing technology and internal processes for 
BSA compliance; expands enforcement- and investigation-
related authority, including a significant expansion in the 
available sanctions for certain BSA violations; and expands 
BSA whistleblower incentives and protections. Certain 
statutory provisions in the AMLA require rulemakings 
beyond those that have already been finalized, reports and 
other measures. The impact of the AMLA will depend on, 
among other things, these additional rulemakings and 
implementation guidance. The Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network (FinCEN), a bureau of the U.S. Department of 
Treasury, has issued the priorities for anti-money laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism, as required under 
the AMLA. The priorities include: corruption, cybercrime, 
terrorist 
financing, 
fraud, 
transnational 
crime, 
drug 
trafficking organization activity, human trafficking and 
proliferation financing.
The Corporate Transparency Act (CTA) was enacted in 2021 
as part of the AMLA and designed to establish beneficial 
ownership information reporting requirements for certain 
types of entities, and in 2024, FinCEN’s rule implementing 
the reporting requirements of the CTA became effective. 
Under the rule, domestic companies formed before 2024 
would be required to file their initial report by January 1, 
2025 and domestic companies formed in or after 2024 would 
be required to file their initial report within, respectively, 90 
or 30 days of their formation, in each case subject to certain 
exemptions. On February 19, 2025, FinCEN announced that 
the earliest initial reporting deadline is March 21, 2025.
In 2024, FinCEN and the SEC proposed a rule that would 
require certain investment advisers to implement reasonable 
procedures to identify and verify the identities of their 
customers. In 2024, FinCEN proposed to amend the anti-
money laundering/countering the financing of terrorism 
(AML/CFT) 
program 
requirements 
for 
all 
financial 
institutions subject to the BSA that have AML/CFT program 
obligations, including us. The proposal would, among other 
things, require a financial institution’s risk assessment 
process to identify, evaluate and document the financial 
institution’s money laundering, terrorist financing and other 
illicit activity risks, and update such risk assessments on a 
periodic basis. In 2024, the U.S. federal bank regulatory 
agencies proposed amendments to their respective BSA 
program rules to align those rules with the FinCEN proposal. 
FinCEN has also adopted a rule, effective on January 1, 2026, 
that includes certain investment advisers, such as us, in the 
definition of “financial institutions” under FinCEN’s rules 
implementing the BSA and, among other things, prescribes 
minimum standards for AML/CFT programs to be 
established by such investment advisers and requires them to 
report suspicious activity to FinCEN.
We are subject to other laws and regulations worldwide 
relating to anti-money laundering and financial transparency, 
including the E.U. Anti-Money Laundering Directives. In 
addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other laws and 
regulations 
worldwide 
regarding 
corrupt 
and 
illegal 
payments, or providing anything of value, for the benefit of 
government officials and others. The scope of the types of 
payments or other benefits covered by these laws is very 
broad. These laws and regulations include requirements 
relating to the identification of clients, monitoring for and 
reporting suspicious transactions, monitoring direct and 
indirect payments to politically exposed persons, providing 
information to regulatory authorities and law enforcement 
agencies, and sharing information with other financial 
institutions.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
24
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Privacy and Cybersecurity Regulation
Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations 
relating to the privacy of information regarding clients, 
employees and others. These include, but are not limited to, 
the GLB Act, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, 
as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 
(CCPA), the E.U.’s General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR), the U.K.’s Data Protection Act 2018 and U.K. 
GDPR, the Swiss Federal Data Protection Act, the Japanese 
Personal 
Information 
Protection 
Act, 
the 
Personal 
Information Protection Law of the People’s Republic of 
China, the Australian Privacy Act 1988, and India’s Digital 
Personal Data Protection Act. Generally, privacy laws impose 
obligations with regard to the collection, use and disclosure 
of personal information and require public disclosure of 
privacy practices. Some privacy laws offer individuals certain 
rights about how their personal information is processed, 
provide for significant penalties for non-compliance, and, 
under certain circumstances, impose requirements for 
transfers of personal data across national borders.  
In 2023, the SEC proposed to amend Regulation Systems 
Compliance and Integrity (SCI). The proposed amendments 
to Regulation SCI would, among other things, expand the 
types of entities covered by the regulation, require additional 
policies and procedures to address cybersecurity risks, and 
require disclosure of additional types of cybersecurity events 
to the SEC. 
In 2024, the SEC amended Regulation S-P that implements 
the GLB Act. The amendments to Regulation S-P require 
broker-dealers, 
investment 
companies 
and 
investment 
advisers registered with the SEC to adopt written policies and 
procedures for incident response programs to address 
unauthorized access to or use of customer information. The 
amended Regulation S-P requires covered entities to notify 
within 30 days individuals affected by an incident involving 
sensitive customer information and provide them with details 
about the incident and other information intended to help 
affected individuals respond appropriately. Larger covered 
entities, such as GS&Co., will have until December 2025, and 
smaller covered entities will have until June 2026, to comply 
with the amended Regulation S-P. In 2024, the California 
Privacy Protection Agency proposed regulations under the 
CCPA relating to cybersecurity audits, risk assessments, and 
automated decision-making technology.
Our businesses are also subject to laws and regulations 
governing cybersecurity and related risks, and which require 
regulatory disclosures, and, in some instances, individual 
disclosures, of certain security incidents. These include, but 
are not limited to, the NYDFS Cybersecurity Requirements 
for Financial Services Companies. The NYDFS also requires 
financial institutions regulated by the NYDFS, including GS 
Bank USA, to, among other things, (i) establish and maintain 
a 
cybersecurity 
program 
designed 
to 
ensure 
the 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of their information 
systems; (ii) implement and maintain a written cybersecurity 
policy setting forth policies and procedures for the protection 
of their information systems and nonpublic information; and 
(iii) designate a Chief Information Security Officer. In 2023, 
the NYDFS adopted amendments to its cybersecurity 
regulations that will impose heightened or additional 
requirements 
with 
respect 
to 
cybersecurity 
incident 
notifications, risk management and governance. Most of 
these amendments became effective in 2024 although certain 
amendments have a longer transition period and become 
effective in 2025.
In 2023, the E.U. Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA) 
became effective and applies from January 2025. DORA 
requires E.U. financial entities, such as GSBE, to have a 
comprehensive governance and control framework for the 
management of information and communications technology 
risk. In addition, in 2024, the E.U. Artificial Intelligence Act 
(E.U. AI Act) became effective. Certain provisions of the E.U. 
AI Act apply from February 2025, with other provisions 
applying between August 2025 and August 2027. The E.U. AI 
Act establishes rules for placing on the market, putting into 
service, and using artificial intelligence systems in the E.U.
In 2024, the CFPB adopted a rule regarding personal financial 
data rights that requires financial institutions that offer 
consumer deposit accounts and issue credit cards, such as GS 
Bank USA, to provide consumers electronic access to at least 
24 months of transaction data and certain account 
information and are prohibited from imposing any fees or 
charges for maintaining or providing access to such data. The 
rule also imposes data accuracy, retention and other 
obligations, and data use limitations and other obligations on 
entities obtaining access to such personal financial data, such 
as GS&Co. The current compliance deadline for large 
financial institutions, including GS Bank USA, is April 1, 
2026. However, this timeline is potentially subject to change 
as a result of CFPB action or currently pending litigation. 
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management 
— Cybersecurity Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7 of this 
Form 10-K for further information about our cybersecurity 
risk management, strategy and governance.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
25
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
Policymakers, lawmakers and regulators in the U.S. and 
other jurisdictions have recently increased their focus on 
ESG-related risk oversight, disclosure, and practices at 
financial institutions and other companies. 
In 2023, the federal bank regulatory agencies jointly issued 
principles for climate-related financial risk management for 
large financial institutions, which apply to regulated financial 
institutions with more than $100 billion in total consolidated 
assets, including us. The principles are intended to support 
efforts by large financial institutions to focus on key aspects 
of climate-related financial risk management and consist of 
six 
general 
principles: 
(1) 
governance; 
(2) 
policies, 
procedures, and limits; (3) strategic planning; (4) risk 
management; (5) data, risk measurement, and reporting; and 
(6) scenario analysis. In 2023, the SEC adopted amendments 
to Rule 35d-1 (Names Rule) under the Investment Company 
Act of 1940. The previous Names Rule generally required a 
fund with a name suggesting a focus in a particular type of 
investment, or in investments in a particular industry or 
geographic region, to adopt a policy to invest at least 80% of 
the value of its assets in the type of investment, or in 
investments in the industry, country or geographic region, 
suggested by its name. The amendments expand such 80% 
investment policy to apply to any fund name with terms 
suggesting that the fund focuses in investments that have, or 
investments whose issuers have, particular characteristics, 
including names that suggest the fund incorporates ESG 
factors in its investment decisions. In 2022, the SEC proposed 
a rule that would require enhanced disclosures by certain 
investment advisers and investment companies about their 
ESG investment practices. 
In 2024, the SEC adopted final rules requiring registrants to 
provide certain climate-related disclosures, including Scope 1 
and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions to the extent they are 
material. These rules require certain disclosures related to 
severe weather events and other natural conditions in the 
notes to audited financial statements. These disclosures are 
required to be phased-in over multiple years beginning with 
fiscal year 2025 for large accelerated filers like us. However, 
the SEC has stayed the implementation of these rules, 
pending the outcome of litigation challenging the rules.
Several states in which we operate have enacted or proposed 
statutes, regulations or guidance addressing climate change 
and other ESG issues, including climate disclosure laws and 
climate-related financial risk management guidance. For 
example, in 2023, the NYDFS issued guidance on climate-
related financial risk management applicable to NYDFS-
regulated banking and mortgage organizations, including GS 
Bank USA. The guidance addresses material financial risks 
related to climate change faced by these organizations in the 
context of risk assessment, risk management, and risk 
appetite setting.
Certain states have also enacted, or are considering enacting, 
“fair access” statutes that generally prohibit financial 
institutions from denying or canceling services on the basis of 
factors, such as political opinions, religious beliefs, “social 
credit scores,” or any factor that is not quantitative, 
impartial, and risk-based.
Certain of our entities are expected to be subject, in varying 
degrees, to sustainability-related laws being implemented 
across certain jurisdictions, including by E.U. member states. 
E.U. rules include directives, such as the Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and the Corporate 
Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSDDD), both of 
which would, if implemented in current form, significantly 
expand the scope of ESG disclosure requirements applicable 
to us. There remains uncertainty around timing, scope and 
impacts to us, as numerous member states have not yet 
transposed some of these directives into national law, and the 
European Commission stated its intention to revisit these 
directives, among potentially others, with a desire to pursue 
an Omnibus package, which could impact us. Our regulated 
banking subsidiaries in the E.U. are also subject to 
supervisory expectations and potential enforcement actions 
for, among others, the management of climate-related 
financial risks and related disclosure.
The CRR and the E.U. member states’ legislation 
implementing CRD require large institutions with securities 
traded on a regulated market of a member state to make 
qualitative 
and 
quantitative 
disclosures 
relating 
to 
environmental, social and governance risks on a semi-annual 
basis. GSBE is expected to become subject to this requirement 
in January 2026.
In 2021, the FCA introduced mandatory Taskforce on 
Climate-related 
Financial 
Disclosures 
(TCFD)-aligned 
disclosure requirements for certain FCA-regulated firms, 
including GSI and GSAMI. These entities are also subject to 
climate-related financial disclosures required under the U.K. 
Companies Act. In addition, during 2024, new FCA rules on 
sustainability requirements and investment labels became 
effective. We continue to assess the impact of other ESG-
related regulatory frameworks that will, or are proposed to, 
in the future apply to our FCA- and/or PRA-regulated 
subsidiaries. Our PRA-regulated banking subsidiaries are 
also subject to the PRA’s supervisory expectations for the 
management of climate-related financial risks, including with 
respect to governance, risk management, scenario analysis 
and disclosure. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
26
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Information about our Executive Officers
Set forth below are the name, age, present title, principal 
occupation and certain biographical information for the 
executive officers who have been appointed by, and serve at 
the pleasure of, Group Inc.’s Board.
Denis P. Coleman III, 51
Mr. Coleman has been Chief Financial Officer since January 
2022. He had previously served as Deputy Chief Financial 
Officer from September 2021 and, prior to that, Co-Head of 
the Global Financing Group from June 2018 to September 
2021. From 2016 to June 2018, he was Head of the EMEA 
Financing Group, and from 2009 to 2016 he was Head of 
EMEA Credit Finance in London. 
Sheara J. Fredman, 49
Ms. Fredman has been Controller and Chief Accounting 
Officer since November 2019. She had previously served as 
Head of Regulatory Controllers from September 2017 and, 
prior to that, she had served as Global Product Controller. 
Alex Golten, 49
Mr. Golten has been Chief Risk Officer since January 2025. 
He had previously served as Head of Finance Risk from July 
2024 to December 2024, as Head of Enterprise Risk from 
June 2022 to July 2024 and as Chief Market Risk Officer 
from November 2020 to January 2025. Prior to that, he was 
Chief Credit Risk Officer from January 2018 to April 2021.
Carey Halio, 51
Ms. Halio has been Global Treasurer since May 2024. She 
had previously served as Chief Strategy Officer from October 
2022 to June 2024, and as Global Head of Investor Relations 
from May 2021 to April 2024. Prior to that, she was Chief 
Executive Officer of GS Bank USA from October 2018 to 
May 2021, Deputy Treasurer from September 2019 to May 
2021 and Chief Financial Officer of GS Bank USA from June 
2014 to September 2018.
John F.W. Rogers, 68
Mr. Rogers has been an Executive Vice President since April 
2011 and Secretary to the Board since December 2001. He 
also served as Chief of Staff from December 2001 to 
September 2023.
Kathryn H. Ruemmler, 53
Ms. Ruemmler has been the Chief Legal Officer, General 
Counsel and Secretary since March 2021, and was previously 
Global Head of Regulatory Affairs from April 2020. From 
June 2014 to April 2020, Ms. Ruemmler was a Litigation 
Partner at Latham & Watkins LLP, a global law firm, where 
she was Global Chair of the White Collar Defense and 
Investigations practice.
David Solomon, 63
Mr. Solomon has been Chairman of the Board since January 
2019 and Chief Executive Officer and a director since 
October 2018. He had previously served as President and 
Chief or Co-Chief Operating Officer from January 2017 and 
Co-Head of the Investment Banking Division from July 2006 
to December 2016.
John E. Waldron, 55
Mr. Waldron has been President and Chief Operating Officer 
since October 2018. He had previously served as Co-Head of 
the Investment Banking Division from December 2014. Prior 
to that he was Global Head of Investment Banking Services/
Client Coverage for the Investment Banking Division and had 
oversight of the Investment Banking Services Leadership 
Group, and from 2007 to 2009 was Global Co-Head of the 
Financial Sponsors Group.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
27
Available Information 
Our internet address is www.goldmansachs.com and the 
investor relations section of our website is located at 
www.goldmansachs.com/investor-relations, where we make 
available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, 
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 
8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished 
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as 
well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable 
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, 
the SEC. Also posted on our website, and available in print 
upon request of any shareholder to our Investor Relations 
Department (Investor Relations), are our certificate of 
incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit, Risk, 
Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and 
Public Responsibilities Committees, our Policy Regarding 
Director Independence Determinations, our Policy on 
Reporting of Concerns Regarding Accounting and Other 
Matters, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our 
directors, officers and employees. Within the time period 
required by the SEC, we will post on our website any 
amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and 
any waiver applicable to any executive officer, director or 
senior financial officer. 
Our website also includes information about (i) purchases 
and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and 
directors; (ii) disclosure relating to certain non-GAAP 
financial measures (as defined in the SEC’s Regulation G) 
that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, 
by broadcast or by other means; (iii) our U.S. Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Stress 
Tests results; (iv) the public portion of our and GS Bank 
USA’s resolution plan submissions; (v) our Pillar 3 disclosure; 
(vi) our average daily LCR; (vii) our average daily NSFR; 
(viii) our People Strategy Report; (ix) our Sustainability 
Report; and (x) our TCFD Report. 
Investor Relations can be contacted at The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc., 200 West Street, 29th Floor, New York, New 
York 
10282, 
Attn: 
Investor 
Relations, 
telephone: 
212-902-0300, e-mail: gs-investor-relations@gs.com. We use 
the following, as well as other social media channels, to 
disclose public information to investors, the media and 
others: 
• Our website (www.goldmansachs.com); 
• Our X, formerly known as Twitter, account (x.com/
GoldmanSachs); and 
• Our Instagram account (instagram.com/GoldmanSachs). 
Our officers may use similar social media channels to disclose 
public information. It is possible that certain information we 
or our officers post on our website and on social media could 
be deemed material, and we encourage investors, the media 
and others interested in Goldman Sachs to review the 
business and financial information we or our officers post on 
our website and on the social media channels identified 
above. The information on our website and those social 
media channels is not incorporated by reference into this 
Form 10-K.
Forward-Looking Statements 
We have included in this Form 10-K, and our management 
may make, statements that constitute “forward-looking 
statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions 
of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Forward-looking statements are not historical facts or 
statements of current conditions, but instead represent only 
our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their 
nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. 
By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are 
alerting you to the possibility that our actual results, financial 
condition, liquidity and capital actions may differ, possibly 
materially, from the anticipated results, financial condition, 
liquidity and capital actions in these forward-looking 
statements. Important factors that could cause our results, 
financial condition, liquidity and capital actions to differ 
from those in these statements include, among others, those 
described below and in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of 
this Form 10-K.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
28
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
These statements may relate to, among other things, (i) our 
future plans and results, including our target return on 
average common shareholders’ equity (ROE), return on 
average tangible common shareholders’ equity (ROTE), 
efficiency ratio, CET1 capital ratio and firmwide total credit 
alternative assets, and how they can be achieved, (ii) trends in 
or growth opportunities for our businesses, including the 
timing, costs, profitability, benefits and other aspects of 
business and strategic initiatives and their impact on our 
efficiency ratio, as well as the opportunities and challenges 
presented by artificial intelligence (AI), (iii) our level of future 
compensation expense, (iv) our Investment banking fees 
backlog and future advisory and capital markets results, (v) 
our expected interest income and interest expense, (vi) our 
expense savings and strategic locations initiatives, (vii) 
expenses we may incur, including future litigation expense, 
(viii) the projected growth of our deposits and other funding, 
asset liability management and funding strategies and related 
interest expense savings, (ix) our business initiatives, (x) our 
planned 2025 benchmark debt issuances, (xi) the amount, 
composition and location of global core liquid assets (GCLA) 
we expect to hold, (xii) our credit exposures, (xiii) our 
expected provision for credit losses, (xiv) the adequacy of our 
allowance for credit losses, (xv) the narrowing of our 
consumer business, (xvi) the objectives and effectiveness of 
our business continuity planning (BCP), information security 
program, risk management and liquidity policies, (xvii) our 
resolution plan and its implications for stakeholders, (xviii) 
the design and effectiveness of our resolution capital and 
liquidity models and triggers and alerts framework, (xix) the 
results of stress tests, the effect of changes to regulations, and 
our future status, activities or reporting under banking and 
financial regulation, (xx) our expected tax rate, (xxi) the 
future state of our liquidity and regulatory capital ratios, and 
our prospective capital distributions (including dividends and 
repurchases), (xxii) our expected SCB and G-SIB surcharge, 
(xxiii) legal proceedings, governmental investigations or 
other contingencies, (xxiv) the asset recovery guarantee and 
our remediation activities related to our 1Malaysia 
Development 
Berhad 
(1MDB) 
settlements, 
(xxv) 
the 
effectiveness of our management of our human capital, (xxvi) 
our sustainability and carbon neutrality targets and goals, 
(xxvii) future inflation, (xxviii) the impact of Russia’s 
invasion of Ukraine and related sanctions and other 
developments on our business, results and financial position, 
(xxix) our ability to sell, and the terms of any proposed sales 
of, Asset & Wealth Management historical principal 
investments and our ability to transition the GM credit card 
program to another issuer, (xxx) the impact of the conflicts 
in the Middle East, (xxxi) our ability to manage our 
commercial real estate exposures, (xxxii) the profitability of 
Platform Solutions and (xxxiii) the effectiveness of our 
cybersecurity risk management process. 
Statements about our target ROE, ROTE, efficiency ratio 
and expense savings, and how they can be achieved, are 
based on our current expectations regarding our business 
prospects and are subject to the risk that we may be unable to 
achieve our targets due to, among other things, changes in 
our business mix and inability to grow our businesses and 
execute our strategy. 
Statements about our target ROE, ROTE and CET1 capital 
ratio, and how they can be achieved, are based on our current 
expectations regarding the capital requirements applicable to 
us and are subject to the risk that our actual capital 
requirements may be higher than currently anticipated 
because of, among other factors, changes in the regulatory 
capital requirements applicable to us resulting from changes 
in regulations, including as a result of any revisions to the 
U.S. bank regulatory capital rules, or the interpretation or 
application of existing regulations or changes in the nature 
and composition of our activities.
Statements about our total credit alternative assets targets are 
based on our current expectations regarding our fundraising 
prospects and are subject to the risk that actual inflows may 
be lower than expected due to, among other factors, 
competition from other asset managers, changes in 
investment preferences and changes in economic or market 
conditions. 
Statements about the timing, costs, profitability, benefits and 
other aspects of business and expense savings initiatives, the 
level and composition of more durable revenues and increases 
in market share and the narrowing of our consumer business 
are based on our current expectations regarding our ability to 
implement these initiatives, and actual results may differ, 
possibly materially, from our current expectations due to, 
among other things, a delay in the timing of these initiatives, 
increased competition and an inability to reduce expenses 
and grow businesses with more durable revenues or to exit 
certain consumer businesses. 
Statements about the level of future compensation expense, 
including as a percentage of both operating expenses and net 
revenues, net of provision for credit losses, and our efficiency 
ratio are subject to the risks that the compensation and other 
costs to operate our businesses may be greater than currently 
expected. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
29
Statements about our Investment banking fees backlog and 
future advisory and capital market results are subject to the 
risk that advisory and capital market activity may not 
increase as the firm expects or that such transactions may be 
modified or may not be completed at all, and related net 
revenues may not be realized or may be materially less than 
expected. Important factors that could have such a result 
include, for underwriting transactions, a decline or weakness 
in general economic conditions, an outbreak or worsening of 
hostilities, including those in Ukraine and the Middle East, 
continuing volatility in the securities markets or an adverse 
development with respect to the issuer of the securities and, 
for advisory transactions, a decline in the securities markets, 
an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse 
development with respect to a party to the transaction or a 
failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. 
Statements about the projected growth of our deposits and 
other funding, asset liability management and funding 
strategies and related interest expense savings, and our 
platform solutions business, are subject to the risk that actual 
growth, savings and profitability may differ, possibly 
materially, from that currently anticipated due to, among 
other things, changes in interest rates and competition from 
other similar products. 
Statements about planned 2025 benchmark debt issuances 
and the amount, composition and location of GCLA we 
expect to hold are subject to the risk that actual issuances and 
GCLA levels may differ, possibly materially, from that 
currently expected due to changes in market conditions, 
business opportunities or our funding and projected liquidity 
needs. 
Statements about our expected provision for credit losses are 
subject to the risk that actual credit losses may differ and our 
expectations may change, possibly materially, from that 
currently anticipated due to, among other things, changes to 
the composition of our loan portfolio and changes in the 
economic environment in future periods and our forecasts of 
future economic conditions, as well as changes in our models, 
policies and other management judgments. 
Statements about our future effective income tax rate are 
subject to the risk that it may differ from the anticipated rate 
indicated in such statements, possibly materially, due to, 
among other things, changes in the tax rates applicable to us, 
changes in our earnings mix, our profitability and entities in 
which we generate profits, the assumptions we have made in 
forecasting our expected tax rate, the interpretation or 
application of existing tax statutes and regulations, as well as 
any corporate tax legislation that may be enacted or any 
guidance that may be issued by the U.S. Internal Revenue 
Service or in the other jurisdictions in which we operate 
(including Global Anti-Base Erosion (Pillar II) guidance). 
Statements about the future state of our liquidity and 
regulatory capital ratios (including our SCB and G-SIB 
surcharge), and our prospective capital distributions 
(including dividends and repurchases), are subject to the risk 
that our actual liquidity, regulatory capital ratios and capital 
distributions may differ, possibly materially, from what is 
currently expected due to, among other things, the need to 
use capital to support clients, increased regulatory 
requirements resulting from changes in regulations or the 
interpretation or application of existing regulations, results of 
applicable 
supervisory 
stress 
tests, 
changes 
to 
the 
composition of our balance sheet and our results of 
operations. Statements about the estimated impact of 
proposed, but not finalized, capital rules are subject to 
change as the proposed rules may change, the final rules may 
differ from the proposed rules and our balance sheet 
composition will change. As a consequence, we may 
underestimate the actual impact of the final rules.
Statements about the risk exposure related to the asset 
recovery guarantee provided to the Government of Malaysia 
are subject to the risk that we may be unsuccessful in our 
arbitration against the Government of Malaysia. Statements 
about the progress or the status of remediation activities 
relating to 1MDB are based on our expectations regarding 
our current remediation plans. Accordingly, our ability to 
complete the remediation activities may change, possibly 
materially, from what is currently expected. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
30
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Statements about our objectives in management of our 
human capital are based on our current expectations and are 
subject to the risk that we may not achieve these objectives. 
Statements about our sustainability and carbon neutrality, 
net-zero or other sustainability-related targets and goals are 
based on our current expectations and are subject to the risk 
that we may not achieve these targets and goals due to, 
among other things, global socio-demographic and economic 
trends, energy prices, lack of technological innovations, 
climate-related conditions and weather events, legislative and 
regulatory changes, consumer behavior and demand, and 
other unforeseen events or conditions. 
Statements about future inflation are subject to the risk that 
actual inflation may differ, possibly materially, due to, 
among 
other 
things, 
changes 
in 
economic 
growth, 
unemployment or consumer demand. 
Statements about the impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine 
and related sanctions, the impact of the conflicts in the 
Middle East and other developments on our business, results 
and financial position are subject to the risks that hostilities 
may escalate and expand, that sanctions may increase and 
that the actual impact may differ, possibly materially, from 
what is currently expected. 
Statements about the proposed sales of Asset & Wealth 
Management historical principal investments are subject to 
the risks that buyers may not bid on these assets or bid at 
levels, or with terms, that are unacceptable to us, and that the 
performance of these activities may deteriorate as a result of 
the proposed sales, and statements about our ability to 
transition the GM credit card program to another issuer are 
subject to the risk that the transaction may not close on the 
anticipated timeline or at all, including due to a failure to 
obtain requisite regulatory approval. 
Statements about the effectiveness of our cybersecurity risk 
management process are subject to the risk that measures we 
have implemented to safeguard our systems (and third parties 
that we interface with) may not be sufficient to prevent a 
successful cybersecurity attack or a material security breach 
that results in the disclosure of confidential information or 
otherwise disrupts our operations. 
Item 1A.  Risk Factors
We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in 
our businesses. 
The following is a summary of some of the more important 
factors that could affect our businesses:
Market
• Our businesses have been and may in the future be 
adversely affected by conditions in the global financial 
markets and broader economic conditions.
• Our businesses have been and may in the future be 
adversely affected by declining asset values, particularly 
where we have net “long” positions, receive fees based on 
the value of assets managed, or receive or post collateral.
• Our market-making activities have been and may in the 
future be affected by changes in the levels of market 
volatility.
• Our investment banking, client intermediation, asset 
management and wealth management businesses have been 
adversely affected and may in the future be adversely 
affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence 
among investors and CEOs due to declines in economic 
activity and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or 
market conditions.
• Our asset management and wealth management businesses 
have been and may in the future be adversely affected by 
the poor investment performance of our investment 
products or a client preference for products other than 
those which we offer or for products that generate lower 
fees.
• Inflation has had, and could continue to have, a negative 
effect on our business, results of operations and financial 
condition.
Liquidity
• Our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely 
affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets 
or to sell assets.
• Our businesses have been and may in the future be 
adversely affected by disruptions or lack of liquidity in the 
credit markets, including reduced access to credit and 
higher costs of obtaining credit.
• Reductions in our credit ratings or an increase in our credit 
spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and cost of 
funding.
• Group Inc. is a holding company and its liquidity depends 
on payments and loans from its subsidiaries, many of 
which are subject to legal, regulatory and other restrictions 
on providing funds or assets to Group Inc.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
31
Credit
• Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely 
affected by deterioration in the credit quality of or defaults 
by third parties.
• Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant 
losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and 
financing activities.
• Derivative transactions and delayed documentation or 
settlements expose us to credit risk, unexpected risks and 
potential losses.
Operational
• A failure in our or third-party operational systems or 
human error, malfeasance or other misconduct, could 
impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the 
disclosure of confidential information, damage our 
reputation and cause losses.
• A failure or disruption in our infrastructure, or in the 
operational systems or infrastructure of third parties, could 
impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, damage our 
reputation and cause losses.
• The development and use of AI present risks and challenges 
that may adversely impact our business.
• A failure to protect our computer systems, networks and 
information, and our clients’ information, against cyber 
attacks and similar threats could impair our ability to 
conduct our businesses, result in the disclosure, theft or 
destruction of confidential information, damage our 
reputation and cause losses.
• We have in the past incurred and may in the future incur 
losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes 
and strategies.
Legal and Regulatory
• Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to 
extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.
• A failure to appropriately identify and address potential 
conflicts of interest has in the past and may in the future 
adversely affect our businesses.
• We may be adversely affected by increased governmental 
and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity.
• Substantial civil or criminal liability or significant 
regulatory action against us has in the past had and may in 
the future have material adverse financial effects and 
significant reputational consequences, which in turn could 
seriously harm our business prospects.
• In conducting our businesses around the world, we are 
subject to political, legal, regulatory, tax and other risks 
that are inherent in operating in many countries.
• The application of regulatory strategies and requirements 
in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions to facilitate the 
orderly resolution of large financial institutions could 
create greater risk of loss for Group Inc.’s security holders.
• The application of Group Inc.’s proposed resolution 
strategy could result in greater losses for Group Inc.’s 
security holders.
• Our commodities activities, particularly our physical 
commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation 
and 
involve 
certain 
potential 
risks, 
including 
environmental, reputational and other risks that may 
expose us to significant liabilities and costs.
Competition
• Our results have been and may in the future be adversely 
affected by the composition of our client base.
• The financial services industry is highly competitive.
• The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of 
new products and technologies, including trading and 
distributed ledger technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, 
and AI technologies, has increased competition.
• Our businesses would be adversely affected if we are 
unable to hire and retain qualified employees.
Market 
Developments 
and 
General 
Business 
Environment
• Our businesses, financial condition, liquidity and results of 
operations have been and may in the future be adversely 
affected by unforeseen or catastrophic events, including 
pandemics, terrorist attacks, wars, extreme weather events 
or other natural disasters.
• Climate change could disrupt our businesses and adversely 
affect client activity levels and the creditworthiness of our 
clients and counterparties, and our actual or perceived 
action or inaction relating to climate change could result in 
damage to our reputation. 
• Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of 
operations have been adversely affected by disruptions in 
the global economy caused by conflicts, and related 
sanctions and other developments.
• Certain of our businesses and our funding instruments may 
be adversely affected by changes in reference rates, 
currencies, indexes, baskets or ETFs to which products we 
offer or funding that we raise are linked.
• Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of 
operations may be adversely affected by disruptions in the 
global economy caused by escalating tensions between the 
U.S. and China.
• We face enhanced risks as we operate in new locations and 
transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties.
• We may not be able to fully realize the expected benefits or 
synergies from acquisitions or other business initiatives in 
the time frames we expect, or at all.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
32
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The following are detailed descriptions of our Risk Factors 
summarized above:
Market
Our businesses have been and may in the future be 
adversely affected by conditions in the global financial 
markets and broader economic conditions.
Many of our businesses, by their nature, do not produce 
predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially 
affected by conditions in the global financial markets and 
economic conditions generally, both directly and through 
their impact on client activity levels and creditworthiness. 
These conditions can change suddenly and negatively. 
Our financial performance is highly dependent on the 
environment in which our businesses operate. A favorable 
business environment is generally characterized by, among 
other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, 
regulatory and market conditions that result in transparent, 
liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, business, 
consumer and investor confidence, stable geopolitical 
conditions and strong business earnings. 
Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions 
can be caused by: low levels of or declines in economic 
growth, business activity or investor, business or consumer 
confidence; concerns over a potential recession; changes in 
consumer spending or borrowing patterns; pandemics; 
limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit 
and capital; illiquid markets; increases in inflation, interest 
rates, exchange rate or basic commodity price volatility or 
default rates; high levels of inflation or stagflation; concerns 
about U.S. and other sovereign defaults; uncertainty 
concerning fiscal or monetary policy, government shutdowns, 
debt ceilings or funding; the extent of and uncertainty about 
potential changes in tax rates and regulatory changes; 
limitations on international trade and travel; changes in 
immigration policies; laws and regulations that limit trading 
in, or the issuance of, securities of issuers outside their 
domestic markets; outbreaks or worsening of domestic or 
international tensions or hostilities, terrorism, nuclear 
proliferation, cybersecurity threats or attacks and other 
forms 
of 
disruption 
to 
or 
curtailment 
of 
global 
communication, energy transmission or transportation 
networks or other geopolitical instability or uncertainty; 
corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor 
confidence in capital markets; extreme weather events or 
other natural disasters; or a combination of these or other 
factors.
The financial services industry and the securities and other 
financial markets have been materially and adversely affected 
in the past by significant declines in the values of nearly all 
asset classes, by a severe lack of liquidity and by high levels of 
borrower defaults. In addition, concerns about actual or 
potential increases in interest rates, inflation and other 
borrowing costs, a public health emergency, sovereign debt 
risk and its impact on the relevant sovereign banking system, 
and limitations on international trade, have, at times, 
negatively impacted the levels of client activity.
General uncertainty about economic, political and market 
activities, and the scope, timing and impact of regulatory 
reform, as well as weak consumer, investor and CEO 
confidence resulting in large part from such uncertainty, has 
in the past negatively impacted client activity, which has in 
the past adversely affected and could in the future adversely 
affect many of our businesses. Periods of low volatility and 
periods of high volatility combined with a lack of liquidity 
have at times had an unfavorable impact on our market-
making businesses.
Changes, or proposed changes, to U.S. international trade 
and investment policies, particularly with important trading 
partners, have in recent years negatively impacted financial 
markets. Continued or escalating tensions may result in 
further actions taken by the U.S. or other countries that could 
disrupt international trade and investment and adversely 
affect financial markets. Those actions could include, among 
others, the implementation of or increase in sanctions, tariffs 
or foreign exchange measures, the large-scale sale of U.S. 
Treasury securities or other restrictions on cross-border 
trade, investment, or transfer of information or technology. 
Such developments have in the past affected and could in the 
future adversely affect our or our clients’ businesses.
Financial institution returns may be negatively impacted by 
increased funding costs due in part to the lack of perceived 
government support of such institutions in the event of future 
financial crises relative to financial institutions in countries in 
which governmental support is maintained. In addition, 
liquidity in the financial markets has in the past been, and 
could in the future be, negatively impacted as market 
participants and market practices and structures adjust to 
evolving regulatory frameworks.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
33
In 2023, the U.S. federal government suspended the federal 
debt limit until 2025. If Congress does not raise the debt 
ceiling, the U.S. could default on its obligations, including 
Treasury securities that play an integral role in financial 
markets. A default by the U.S. could result in unprecedented 
market volatility and illiquidity, heightened operational risks 
relating to the clearance and settlement of transactions, 
margin and other disputes with clients and counterparties, an 
adverse impact to investors including money market funds 
that invest in U.S. Treasuries, downgrades in the U.S. credit 
rating, further increases in interest rates and borrowing costs 
and a recession in the U.S. or other economies. Continued 
uncertainty relating to the debt ceiling could result in 
downgrades of the U.S. credit rating, which could adversely 
affect market conditions, lead to margin disputes, increases in 
interest rates and borrowing costs and necessitate significant 
operational changes among market participants, including us. 
A downgrade of the U.S. federal government’s credit rating 
could also materially and adversely affect the market for 
repurchase agreements, securities borrowing and lending, and 
other financings typically collateralized by U.S. Treasury or 
agency obligations. Further, the fair value, liquidity and 
credit ratings of securities issued by, or other obligations of, 
agencies of the U.S. government or related to the U.S. 
government or its agencies, as well as municipal bonds could 
be similarly adversely affected. An increasing frequency of 
government shutdowns, or near shutdowns, in the U.S. could 
also lead to uncertainty as to the continued funding of the 
U.S. government, which could, in turn, adversely affect the 
credit ratings of the U.S. and the market for U.S. Treasury or 
agency obligations.
In 2024, numerous elections were held globally, including the 
recent U.S. presidential election. The outcomes of the 
elections are expected to result in changes in policy, which 
could also have adverse effects on us or the business 
environment in which we operate more generally. For 
example, the new U.S. presidential administration has 
imposed or increased tariffs, including on imports from 
China, and proposed imposing or increasing tariffs on U.S. 
trading partners, which could adversely affect markets, the 
business environment and some of our businesses.
Our businesses have been and may in the future be 
adversely 
affected 
by 
declining 
asset 
values, 
particularly where we have net “long” positions, 
receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or 
receive or post collateral.
Many of our businesses have net “long” positions in debt 
securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including 
private equity and real estate) and most other asset classes. 
These include positions we take when we act as a principal to 
facilitate our clients’ activities, including our exchange-based 
market-making activities, or commit large amounts of capital 
to maintain positions in interest rate and credit products, as 
well as through our currencies, commodities, equities and 
mortgage-related activities. In addition, we invest in similar 
asset classes. Substantially all of our investing and market-
making positions and a portion of our loans are marked-to-
market on a daily or other periodic basis and declines in asset 
values directly and promptly impact our earnings, unless we 
have effectively “hedged” our exposures to those declines. 
In certain circumstances, it may not be possible or economic 
to hedge our exposures and, to the extent that we do so, the 
hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to 
profit from increases in the values of the assets. This is 
particularly the case for credit products, including leveraged 
loans, and private equities or other securities that are not 
freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets. 
Sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of 
assets have in the past substantially curtailed or eliminated, 
and may in the future substantially curtail or eliminate, the 
trading markets for certain assets, which may make it 
difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. We may incur 
losses from time to time as trading markets deteriorate or 
cease 
to 
function, 
including 
with 
respect 
to 
loan 
commitments we have made or securities offerings we have 
underwritten. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets 
reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the 
difficulty in valuing assets has in the past negatively affected, 
and may in the future negatively affect, our capital, liquidity 
or leverage ratios, our funding costs and our ability to deploy 
capital.
In our exchange-based market-making activities, we are 
obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly 
market, including by purchasing securities in a declining 
market. In markets where asset values are declining and in 
volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need 
for liquidity.
We receive asset-based management fees based on the value 
of our clients’ portfolios or investment in funds managed by 
us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on 
increases in the value of such investments. Declines in asset 
values would ordinarily reduce the value of our clients’ 
portfolios or fund assets, which in turn would typically 
reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
34
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We post collateral to support our obligations and receive 
collateral that supports the obligations of our clients and 
counterparties. When the value of the assets posted as 
collateral or the credit ratings of the party posting collateral 
decline, the party posting the collateral may need to provide 
additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading 
position. An example of such a situation is a “margin call” in 
connection with a brokerage account. Therefore, declines in 
the value of asset classes used as collateral mean that either 
the cost of funding positions is increased or the size of 
positions is decreased. If we are the party providing 
collateral, this can increase our costs and reduce our 
profitability and if we are the party receiving collateral, this 
can also reduce our profitability by reducing the level of 
business done with our clients and counterparties.
In addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the 
difficulty of valuing assets, which can lead to costly and time-
consuming disputes over asset values and the level of required 
collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the recipient of 
the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate collateral. In 
cases where we foreclose on collateral, sudden declines in the 
value or liquidity of the collateral have in the past resulted in, 
and may in the future result in, significant losses to us, 
especially where there is a single type of collateral supporting 
the obligation. In addition, we have been and may in the 
future be subject to claims that the foreclosure was not 
permitted under the legal documents, was conducted in an 
improper manner, including in violation of law, or caused a 
client or counterparty to incur significant losses or go out of 
business.
Our market-making activities have been and may in 
the future be affected by changes in the levels of 
market volatility.
Certain of our market-making activities depend on market 
volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities to 
our clients, and decreases in volatility have reduced and may 
in the future reduce these opportunities and the level of client 
activity associated with them and have adversely affected and 
may in the future adversely affect the results of these 
activities. While increased volatility can increase trading 
volumes and spreads, it also increases risk as measured by 
Value-at-Risk (VaR) and increases risks in connection with 
our market-making activities and can cause us to reduce our 
inventory. Limiting the size of our market-making positions 
can adversely affect our profitability. In periods when 
volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining 
significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it 
may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. In those 
circumstances, we have been and may in the future be forced 
to either take on additional risk or to realize losses in order to 
decrease our VaR. In addition, increases in volatility increase 
the level of our RWAs, which increases the amount of capital 
that we are required to hold, and this can reduce our 
profitability and reduce our ability to distribute capital to our 
shareholders. For example, in August 2024, market volatility 
increased significantly, which adversely affected activity 
levels, increased our market RWAs and adversely impacted 
our results on some days.
Our investment banking, client intermediation, asset 
management and wealth management businesses 
have been adversely affected and may in the future be 
adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack of 
confidence among investors and CEOs due to 
declines in economic activity and other unfavorable 
economic, geopolitical or market conditions.
Our investment banking business has been and may in the 
future be adversely affected by market conditions. Poor 
economic conditions and other uncertain geopolitical 
conditions may adversely affect and have in the past 
adversely affected investor and CEO confidence, resulting in 
significant industry-wide declines in the size and number of 
underwritings and of advisory transactions, which would 
likely have, and have in the past had, an adverse effect on our 
revenues and our profit margins. In particular, because a 
significant portion of our investment banking revenues is 
derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline 
in the number of large transactions has in the past and would 
in the future adversely affect our investment banking 
business. Similarly, in recent years, cross-border initial public 
offerings and other securities offerings have accounted for a 
significant proportion of new issuance activity. Legislative, 
regulatory or other changes that limit trading in, or the 
issuance of, securities outside the issuers’ domestic markets, 
that result in or could result in the delisting or removal of 
securities from exchanges or indices, have in the past 
adversely affected and would in the future adversely affect 
our underwriting and client intermediation businesses. 
Furthermore, changes, or proposed changes, to international 
trade and investment policies of the U.S. and other countries 
could negatively affect market activity levels and our 
revenues.
In certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general 
declines in market or economic activity may adversely affect 
our client intermediation businesses by decreasing levels of 
overall activity or by decreasing volatility.
Market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic 
conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our 
clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other 
products or their brokerage accounts and result in reduced 
net revenues, principally in our asset management and wealth 
management businesses. Even if clients do not withdraw their 
funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee 
income.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
35
Our asset management and wealth management 
businesses have been and may in the future be 
adversely 
affected 
by 
the 
poor 
investment 
performance of our investment products or a client 
preference for products other than those which we 
offer or for products that generate lower fees.
Poor investment returns in our asset management and wealth 
management businesses, due to either general market 
conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors 
or to benchmarks) by funds or accounts that we manage or 
investment products that we design or sell, affect our ability 
to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or 
additional assets from existing clients. This could affect the 
management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under 
supervision (AUS) or the commissions and net spreads that 
we earn for selling other investment products. To the extent 
that our clients choose to invest in products that we do not 
currently offer, we will suffer outflows and a loss of 
management fees. Further, if, due to changes in investor 
sentiment or the relative performance of certain asset classes 
or otherwise, clients continue to invest in products that 
generate lower fees (e.g., passively managed or fixed income 
products), our average effective management fee will decline 
further and our asset management and wealth management 
businesses could be adversely affected.
Inflation has had, and could continue to have, a 
negative effect on our business, results of operations 
and financial condition.
Inflationary pressures in recent years have affected 
economies, financial markets and market participants 
worldwide. Inflationary pressures in recent years have 
increased certain of our operating expenses, and have 
adversely affected consumer sentiment and CEO confidence. 
Central bank responses to inflationary pressures in recent 
years have also resulted in higher market interest rates, 
which, in turn, have contributed to lower activity levels 
across financial markets, in particular for debt underwriting 
transactions and mortgage originations, and resulted in lower 
values for certain financial assets which have adversely 
affected our equity and debt investments. Higher interest 
rates increase our borrowing costs and have in recent years 
required us to increase interest paid on our deposits. If 
inflationary pressures increase, our expenses may increase; 
we may be unable to achieve our efficiency ratio target; 
activity levels for certain of our businesses, in particular debt 
underwriting and mortgages, may decline; our interest 
expense could increase faster than our interest income, 
reducing our net interest income and net interest margin; 
certain of our investments could incur losses or generally low 
levels of returns; AUS could decline, or the composition of 
our AUS could shift to lower fee products, reducing 
management and other fees; economies worldwide could 
experience recessions; and we could continue to operate in a 
generally unfavorable economic and market environment.
Liquidity
Our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be 
adversely affected by an inability to access the debt 
capital markets or to sell assets.
Liquidity is essential to our businesses. It is of critical 
importance to us, as most of the failures of financial 
institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient 
liquidity. Our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to 
access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to 
raise or retain deposits, an inability to access funds from our 
subsidiaries or otherwise allocate liquidity optimally, an 
inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, lack of 
timely settlement of transactions, unusual deposit outflows, 
or other unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This 
situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be 
unable to control, such as a general market or economic 
disruption or an operational problem that affects third 
parties or us, or even by the perception among market 
participants that we, or other market participants, are 
experiencing greater liquidity risk.
We employ structured products to benefit our clients and 
hedge our own risks. The financial instruments that we hold 
and the contracts to which we are a party are often complex, 
and these complex structured products often do not have 
readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. 
Our investing and financing activities may lead to situations 
where the holdings from these activities represent a 
significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict 
liquidity for our positions. 
Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if there is 
not generally a liquid market for such assets, as well as in 
circumstances where other market participants are seeking to 
sell similar otherwise generally liquid assets at the same time, 
as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis or in 
response to changes to rules or regulations. For example, in 
2021, an investment management firm with large positions 
with several financial institutions defaulted, resulting in 
rapidly declining prices in the securities underlying those 
positions. In addition, clearinghouses, exchanges and other 
financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-
off rights or the right to require additional collateral, 
including in difficult market conditions, which could further 
impair our liquidity.
Numerous 
regulations 
impose 
stringent 
liquidity 
requirements on large financial institutions, including us. 
These regulations require us to hold large amounts of highly 
liquid assets and reduce our flexibility to source and deploy 
funding. In addition, our need to manage our operations in 
light of certain regulatory requirements when applicable 
thresholds are met has in the past limited and may in the 
future limit our ability to raise deposits in GSIB or other 
funding, which could adversely affect our liquidity or ability 
to respond efficiently to liquidity stress.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
36
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Our businesses have been and may in the future be 
adversely affected by disruptions or lack of liquidity in 
the credit markets, including reduced access to credit 
and higher costs of obtaining credit.
Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the 
availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our 
ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may 
do so in the future. We fund ourselves on an unsecured basis 
by primarily issuing long-term debt and commercial paper, 
by raising deposits at our bank subsidiaries, by issuing hybrid 
financial instruments and by obtaining loans or lines of credit 
from commercial or other banking entities. We seek to 
finance many of our assets on a secured basis. Any 
disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and 
more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our 
available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our 
operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us 
to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of 
funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, 
particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending 
and market making.
Our clients engaging in mergers, acquisitions and other types 
of strategic transactions often rely on access to the secured 
and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. A 
lack of available credit or an increased cost of credit can 
adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients’ 
mergers and acquisitions transactions, particularly large 
transactions, and adversely affect our advisory and 
underwriting businesses.
Our credit businesses have been and may in the future be 
negatively affected by a lack of liquidity in credit markets. A 
lack of liquidity reduces price transparency, increases price 
volatility and decreases transaction volumes and size, all of 
which can increase transaction risk or decrease the 
profitability of these businesses.
Reductions in our credit ratings or an increase in our 
credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and 
cost of funding.
Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction 
in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and 
competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our 
access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under 
certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized 
financing contracts. Under these provisions, counterparties 
could be permitted to terminate contracts with us or require 
us to post additional collateral. Termination of our trading 
and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to 
sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find 
other sources of financing or to make significant cash 
payments or securities movements. 
As of December 2024, our counterparties could have called 
for additional collateral or termination payments related to 
our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements in an 
aggregate amount of $315 million in the event of a one-notch 
downgrade of our credit ratings and $1.20 billion in the event 
of a two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings. A 
downgrade by any one rating agency, depending on the 
agency’s relative ratings of us at the time of the downgrade, 
may have an impact which is comparable to the impact of a 
downgrade by all rating agencies. For further information 
about our credit ratings, see “Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — 
Risk Management — Liquidity Risk Management — Credit 
Ratings” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
Our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly 
related to our credit spreads (the amount in excess of the 
interest rate of benchmark securities that we need to pay). 
Increases in our credit spreads can significantly increase our 
cost of this funding. Changes in credit spreads are 
continuous, market-driven, and subject at times to 
unpredictable and highly volatile movements. Our credit 
spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of our 
creditworthiness and movements in the costs to purchasers of 
credit default swaps referenced to our long-term debt. The 
market for credit default swaps has proven to be extremely 
volatile and at times has lacked a high degree of transparency 
or liquidity.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
37
Group Inc. is a holding company and its liquidity 
depends on payments and loans from its subsidiaries, 
many of which are subject to legal, regulatory and 
other restrictions on providing funds or assets to 
Group Inc.
Group Inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on 
dividends, distributions, loans and other payments from its 
subsidiaries to fund share repurchases and dividend payments 
and to fund payments on its obligations, including debt 
obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-
dealer and bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict 
dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or 
reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group 
Inc. 
In addition, our broker-dealer and bank entities and their 
subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend 
or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital 
and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability 
to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank 
accounts to fund their businesses. Additional restrictions on 
related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity 
requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds 
on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower 
earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet 
the obligations of Group Inc., including under the FRB’s 
source of strength requirement, and even require Group Inc. 
to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. 
Restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede 
access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on 
its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend 
payments. In addition, Group Inc.’s right to participate in a 
distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the 
subsidiary’s creditors.
There has been a trend towards increased regulation and 
supervision of our branches and subsidiaries by the 
governments and regulators in the countries in which those 
branches and subsidiaries are located or do business. 
Concerns about protecting clients and creditors of branches 
and subsidiaries of financial institutions that are located 
outside of the country in which such branches or subsidiaries 
are located or do business have caused or may cause a 
number of governments and regulators to take additional 
steps to “ring fence” or require internal total loss-absorbing 
capacity (which may also be subject to “bail-in” powers, as 
described below) at those branches and subsidiaries in order 
to protect clients and creditors of those branches and 
subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulties involving 
those branches and subsidiaries. The result has been and may 
continue to be additional limitations on our ability to 
efficiently move capital and liquidity among our affiliated 
entities, or to Group Inc., including in times of stress, thereby 
increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required 
by us on a consolidated basis.
Furthermore, Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment 
obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including GS&Co. 
and GS Bank USA, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, 
Group Inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other 
consolidated subsidiaries on a transaction-by-transaction 
basis, as negotiated with counterparties. These guarantees 
may require Group Inc. to provide substantial funds or assets 
to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a 
time when Group Inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own 
obligations. 
The requirements for us and certain of our subsidiaries to 
develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to 
regulators, and the incorporation of feedback received from 
regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity 
levels or issue additional long-term debt at Group Inc. or 
particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or 
duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and 
may reduce our ability to provide Group Inc. guarantees of 
the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at Group Inc. 
Resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure 
our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we 
may 
otherwise 
deem 
most 
operationally 
efficient. 
Furthermore, arrangements to facilitate our resolution 
planning may cause us to be subject to additional taxes. Any 
such limitations or requirements would be in addition to the 
legal and regulatory restrictions described above on our 
ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany 
dividends or payments. 
See “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 
10-K for further information about regulatory restrictions.
Credit
Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be 
adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality 
of or defaults by third parties.
We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us 
money, securities or other assets will not perform their 
obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to 
us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or 
other reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or 
even concerns about a default by such an institution, has in 
the past and could in the future lead to significant liquidity 
problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in 
turn could adversely affect us. We are also exposed to the risk 
of a special assessment, including under the FDIA or OLA in 
the event of the failure of a bank or non-bank financial 
institution, which have in the past, and may in the future, 
adversely affect our results of operations.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
38
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third 
parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In 
addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties 
whose securities or obligations we hold, including a 
deterioration in the value of collateral posted by third parties 
to secure their obligations to us, including under derivative 
contracts and loan agreements, could result in losses and/or 
adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use 
those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. 
A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our 
counterparties could also have a negative impact on our 
results. While in many cases we are permitted to require 
additional collateral from counterparties that experience 
financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of 
collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged 
assets. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on 
collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise 
of our rights. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with 
counterparties as to the valuation of collateral typically 
increase significantly in times of market stress, increased 
volatility and illiquidity. 
As part of our clearing and prime financing activities, we 
finance our clients’ positions, and we could be held 
responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. 
Default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are 
difficult to detect or foresee.
Concentration of risk increases the potential for 
significant losses in our market-making, underwriting, 
investing and financing activities.
Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant 
losses in our market-making, underwriting, investing and 
financing activities. The number and size of these 
transactions has affected and may in the future affect our 
results of operations in a given period. Moreover, because of 
concentrated risk, we may suffer losses even when economic 
and market conditions are generally favorable for our 
competitors. Disruptions in the credit markets can make it 
difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or 
economically. In addition, we extend large commitments as 
part of our credit origination activities. Disruptions in the 
credit markets have in the past substantially curtailed or 
eliminated, and may in the future substantially curtail or 
eliminate, the trading markets for loans we originate. These 
disruptions have in the past made, and may in the future 
make, it difficult for us to sell or value such assets, which 
have in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in 
losses for us.
Rules adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act, and similar rules 
adopted in other jurisdictions, require issuers of certain asset-
backed securities and any person who organizes and initiates 
certain 
asset-backed 
securities 
transactions 
to 
retain 
economic exposure to the asset, which has affected the cost of 
and structures used in connection with these securitization 
activities. Our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, 
syndicating or securitizing these positions, including during 
periods of market stress, has in the past negatively affected 
and may in the future negatively affect our results of 
operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, 
including due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of borrowers, 
as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such 
securities or loans.
In the ordinary course of business, we are at times subject to 
a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, 
borrower, issuer (including sovereign issuers) or geographic 
area or group of related countries, such as the E.U., and a 
failure or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could 
negatively impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the 
systems by which we set limits and monitor the level of our 
credit exposure to individual entities, industries, countries 
and regions may not function as we have anticipated. 
Regulatory reform, including the Dodd-Frank Act, has led to 
increased centralization of trading activity through particular 
clearinghouses, agent banks or exchanges, which has 
significantly increased our concentration of risk with respect 
to these entities. While our activities expose us to many 
different industries, counterparties and countries, we 
routinely execute a high volume of transactions with 
counterparties engaged in financial services activities, 
including 
brokers 
and 
dealers, 
commercial 
banks, 
clearinghouses, exchanges and investment funds. This has 
resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to 
these counterparties. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
39
Derivative transactions and delayed documentation or 
settlements expose us to credit risk, unexpected risks 
and potential losses.
We are party to a large number of derivative transactions, 
including credit derivatives. Many of these derivative 
instruments 
are 
individually 
negotiated 
and 
non-
standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling 
positions difficult. Many credit derivatives require that we 
deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or 
other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of 
cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other 
obligation and may not be able to obtain the underlying 
security, loan or other obligation. This could cause us to 
forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result 
in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational 
risk, as well as increased costs to us. 
Derivative 
transactions 
also 
involve 
the 
risk 
that 
documentation has not been properly executed, that executed 
agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty, 
or that obligations under such agreements may not be able to 
be “netted” against other obligations with such counterparty. 
In addition, counterparties may claim that such transactions 
were not appropriate or authorized.
As a signatory to the ISDA Universal Protocol or U.S. ISDA 
Protocol (ISDA Protocols) and being subject to the FRB’s and 
FDIC’s rules on QFCs and similar rules in other jurisdictions, 
we may not be able to exercise remedies against 
counterparties and, as this regime has not yet been tested, we 
may suffer risks or losses that we would not have expected to 
suffer if we could immediately close out transactions upon a 
termination event. The ISDA Protocols and these rules and 
regulations extend to repurchase agreements and other 
instruments that are not derivative contracts.
Derivative contracts and other transactions, including 
secondary bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with 
third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties 
or settled on a timely basis. While the transaction remains 
unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject 
to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a 
default may find it more difficult to enforce our rights.
In addition, as new complex derivative products are created, 
covering a wider array of underlying credit and other 
instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying 
contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to 
effectively manage our risk exposures from these products 
and subject us to increased costs. The provisions of the 
Dodd-Frank Act requiring central clearing of credit 
derivatives and other OTC derivatives, or a market shift 
toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk 
associated with these transactions, but under certain 
circumstances could also limit our ability to develop 
derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and to hedge 
our own risks, and could adversely affect our profitability. In 
addition, these provisions have increased our credit exposure 
to central clearing platforms. 
Operational
A failure in our or third-party operational systems or 
human error, malfeasance or other misconduct, could 
impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in 
the disclosure of confidential information, damage our 
reputation and cause losses.
Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process 
and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of 
transactions, many of which are highly complex and occur at 
high volumes and frequencies, across numerous and diverse 
markets in many currencies. These transactions, as well as 
the information technology services we provide to clients, 
often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal 
and regulatory standards. 
Many rules and regulations worldwide govern our 
obligations to execute transactions and report transactions 
and other information to regulators, exchanges and investors. 
Compliance with these legal and reporting requirements can 
be challenging, and we have been and may in the future be 
subject to regulatory fines and penalties for failing to follow 
these rules or to report timely, accurate and complete 
information in accordance with these rules. 
As the volume, speed, frequency and complexity of 
transactions, especially electronic transactions (as well as the 
requirements to report such transactions on a real-time basis 
to clients, regulators and exchanges) increase, developing and 
maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure has 
become more challenging, and the risk of systems or human 
error by us or our third-party service providers in connection 
with such transactions has increased, as have the potential 
consequences of errors due to the speed and volume of 
transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated 
with discovering errors quickly enough to limit the resulting 
consequences. For example, the transition to a T+1 
settlement timeframe in the U.S. in 2024 has subjected us to, 
and will continue to subject us to, increased operational risks 
with respect to reporting and timely settlement of 
transactions. These risks are exacerbated in times of 
increased volatility. As with other similarly situated 
institutions, we utilize credit underwriting models in 
connection with our businesses, including our consumer-
oriented activities. Allegations or publicity, whether or not 
accurate, that our underwriting decisions do not treat 
consumers or clients fairly, or comply with the applicable law 
or regulation, have in the past resulted and may in the future 
result in negative publicity, reputational damage and 
governmental and regulatory scrutiny, investigations and 
enforcement actions.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
40
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Our financial, accounting, data processing or other 
operational systems and facilities have in the past not 
operated properly in certain respects and may in the future 
not operate properly or become disabled as a result of events 
that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a 
spike in transaction volume or an operational disruption at a 
third-party service provider, adversely affecting our ability to 
process these transactions or provide these services. We must 
continuously update our systems to support our operations 
and growth and to respond to changes in regulations and 
markets, and invest heavily in systemic controls and training 
to pursue our objective of ensuring that such transactions do 
not violate applicable rules and regulations or, due to errors 
in processing such transactions, adversely affect markets, our 
clients and counterparties or us. Enhancements and updates 
to systems, as well as the requisite training, including in 
connection with the integration of new businesses, entail 
significant 
costs 
and 
create 
risks 
associated 
with 
implementing new systems and integrating them with 
existing ones. 
The use of computing devices, phones and other mobile 
devices is critical to the work done by our employees and the 
operation of our systems and businesses and those of our 
clients and our third-party service providers and vendors. 
Their importance has continued to increase, for both our 
regular operations and business continuity plans. Computers 
and computer networks are subject to various risks, 
including, 
among 
others, 
cyber 
attacks, 
inherent 
technological defects, system disruptions and failures and 
human error. For example, fundamental security flaws in 
computer chips found in many types of these computing 
devices and phones have been reported in the past and may 
occur in the future, and in July 2024 there was a widely 
publicized information technology outage as a result of a 
faulty update to a cybersecurity software product that 
affected many businesses worldwide. The use of personal 
devices by our employees or by our vendors for work-related 
activities also presents risks related to potential violations of 
record retention and other requirements. Cloud technologies 
are also critical to the operation of our systems and platforms 
and our reliance on cloud technologies is growing. Service 
disruptions have resulted, and may result in the future, in 
delays in accessing, or the loss of, data that is important to 
our businesses and may hinder our clients’ access to our 
platforms. There have been a number of widely publicized 
cases of outages in connection with access to cloud 
computing providers. Addressing these and similar issues 
could be costly and affect the performance of these businesses 
and systems. Applying fixes can introduce operational risks, 
and, despite the fixes, there may still be residual security 
risks. 
Notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and 
technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses 
ultimately rely on people as our greatest resource, and, from 
time to time, they have in the past and may in the future 
make mistakes or engage in violations of applicable policies, 
laws, rules or procedures that are not always caught 
immediately by our technological processes or by our 
controls and other procedures, which are intended to prevent 
and detect such errors or violations. These have in the past 
and may in the future include calculation errors, mistakes in 
addressing emails, errors in software or model development 
or implementation, or simple errors in judgment, as well as 
intentional efforts to ignore or circumvent applicable policies, 
laws, rules or procedures. Human errors, malfeasance and 
other misconduct, including the intentional misuse of client 
information in connection with insider trading or for other 
purposes, even if promptly discovered and remediated, has in 
the past resulted and may in the future result in reputational 
damage and losses and liabilities for us.
The majority of the employees in our primary locations, 
including the New York metropolitan area, London, 
Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Salt Lake City, 
Dallas, Singapore, Warsaw and Birmingham, work in close 
proximity to one another. Our headquarters is located in the 
New York metropolitan area, and we have our largest 
employee concentration occupying two principal office 
buildings near the Hudson River waterfront. They are subject 
to potential catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, 
terrorist attacks, extreme weather, or other hostile events 
that could negatively affect our business. Notwithstanding 
our efforts to maintain business continuity, business 
disruptions impacting our offices and employees could lead 
to our employees’ inability to occupy the offices, 
communicate with or travel to other office locations or work 
remotely. As a result, our ability to service and interact with 
clients may be adversely impacted, due to our failure or 
inability to successfully implement business contingency 
plans.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
41
A failure or disruption in our infrastructure, or in the 
operational systems or infrastructure of third parties, 
could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, 
damage our reputation and cause losses.
We face the risk of operational failure or significant 
operational delay, termination or capacity constraints of any 
of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearinghouses or other 
financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and 
derivatives transactions, and as our interconnectivity with 
our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational 
failure or significant operational delay with respect to our 
clients’ systems. 
There has been significant consolidation among clearing 
agents, exchanges and clearinghouses and an increasing 
number of derivative transactions are cleared on exchanges, 
which has increased our exposure to operational failure or 
significant operational delay, termination or capacity 
constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we 
use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-
effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, delay, 
termination or constraint. Industry consolidation, whether 
among market participants or financial intermediaries, 
increases the risk of operational failure or significant 
operational delay as disparate complex systems need to be 
integrated, often on an accelerated basis.
The interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with 
agent banks, exchanges and clearinghouses, and the increased 
centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an 
operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an 
industry-wide operational failure that could materially 
impact our ability to conduct business. Interconnectivity of 
financial institutions with other companies through, among 
other things, application programming interfaces or APIs 
presents similar risks. Any such failure, termination or 
constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect 
transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk 
or expand our businesses or result in financial loss or liability 
to our clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our 
businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. 
Despite our resiliency plans and facilities, our ability to 
conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption 
in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the 
communities where we are located. This may include a 
disruption involving electrical, satellite, undersea cable or 
other communications, internet, transportation or other 
facilities used by us, our employees or third parties with 
which we conduct business, including cloud service 
providers. These disruptions may occur as a result of events 
that affect only our buildings or systems or those of third 
parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact 
globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings or 
systems are located, including, but not limited to, natural 
disasters, war, civil unrest, terrorism, economic or political 
developments, pandemics and weather events. 
In addition, although we seek to diversify our third-party 
vendors to increase our resiliency, we are exposed to risks if 
our vendors operate in the same area and are also exposed to 
the risk that a disruption or other information technology 
event at a common service provider to our vendors could 
impede their ability to provide products or services to us. We 
may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate operational 
risks relating to our vendors’ use of common service 
providers.
Additionally, although the prevalence and scope of 
applications of distributed ledger technology, cryptocurrency 
and similar technologies is growing, the technology is nascent 
and may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or have other 
inherent weaknesses. We are exposed to risks, and may 
become exposed to additional risks, related to distributed 
ledger technology, including through our facilitation of 
clients’ activities involving financial products that use 
distributed 
ledger 
technology, 
such 
as 
blockchain, 
cryptocurrencies or other digital assets, our investments in 
companies that seek to develop platforms based on 
distributed ledger technology, the use of distributed ledger 
technology by third-party vendors, clients, counterparties, 
clearinghouses and other financial intermediaries, and the 
receipt of cryptocurrencies or other digital assets as 
collateral. Market volatility of financial products using 
distributed ledger technology may increase these risks.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
42
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The development and use of AI present risks and 
challenges that may adversely impact our business.
We or our third-party vendors, clients or counterparties have 
in the past developed or incorporated, and may in the future 
develop or incorporate, AI technology in certain business 
processes, services or products. The development and use of 
AI present a number of risks and challenges to our business. 
The legal and regulatory environment relating to AI is 
uncertain and rapidly evolving, both in the U.S. and 
internationally, and includes regulation targeted specifically 
at AI as well as provisions in intellectual property, privacy, 
consumer protection, employment and other laws applicable 
to the use of AI. These evolving laws and regulations could 
require changes in our implementation of AI technology and 
increase our compliance costs and the risk of non-
compliance. AI models, particularly generative AI models, 
may produce output or take action that is incorrect, that 
result in the release of private, confidential or proprietary 
information, that reflect biases included in the data on which 
they are trained, infringe on the intellectual property rights of 
others, or that is otherwise harmful. In addition, the 
complexity of many AI models makes it challenging to 
understand why they are generating particular outputs. This 
limited transparency increases the challenges associated with 
assessing the proper operation of AI models, understanding 
and monitoring the capabilities of the AI models, reducing 
erroneous output, eliminating bias and complying with 
regulations that require documentation or explanation of the 
basis on which decisions are made. Further, we may rely on 
AI models developed by third parties, and, to that extent, 
would be dependent in part on the manner in which those 
third parties develop and train their models, including risks 
arising from the inclusion of any unauthorized material in the 
training data for their models, and the effectiveness of the 
steps these third parties have taken to limit the risks 
associated with the output of their models, matters over 
which we may have limited visibility. Additionally, we are 
exposed to risks related to the use of AI technologies by 
third-party vendors, clients, counterparties, clearinghouses 
and other financial intermediaries. Any of these risks could 
expose us to liability or adverse legal or regulatory 
consequences and harm our reputation and the public 
perception of our business or the effectiveness of our security 
measures.
In addition to our use of AI technologies, we are exposed to 
risks arising from the use of AI technologies by bad actors to 
commit fraud and misappropriate funds and to facilitate 
cyberattacks. Generative AI, if used to perpetrate fraud or 
launch cyberattacks, could result in losses, liquidity outflows 
or other adverse effects at a particular financial institution or 
exchange.
A failure to protect our computer systems, networks 
and information, and our clients’ information, against 
cyber attacks and similar threats could impair our 
ability to conduct our businesses, result in the 
disclosure, 
theft 
or 
destruction 
of 
confidential 
information, damage our reputation and cause losses.
Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and 
transmission of confidential and other information in our 
computer systems and networks and those of our vendors. 
There have been a number of highly publicized cases 
involving financial services companies, consumer-based 
companies, software and information technology service 
providers, governmental agencies and other organizations 
reporting the unauthorized access or disclosure of client, 
customer or other confidential information in recent years, as 
well as cyber attacks involving the dissemination, theft and 
destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a 
result of inadequate procedures or the failure to follow 
procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of 
actions by third parties, including actions by foreign 
governments. There have also been a number of highly 
publicized cases where hackers have requested “ransom” 
payments 
in 
exchange 
for 
not 
disclosing 
customer 
information or for restoring access to information or systems.
We are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, 
including denial-of-service attacks, and must continuously 
monitor and develop our systems to protect the integrity and 
functionality of our technology infrastructure and access to 
and the security of our data. We have faced a high volume of 
cyber attacks as we expand our mobile- and other internet-
based products and services, as well as our usage of mobile 
and cloud technologies, and as we provide these services to 
individual 
consumers. 
Further, 
the 
use 
of 
AI 
by 
cybercriminals may increase the frequency and severity of 
cybersecurity attacks against us or our third-party vendors 
and clients. The use of employee-owned devices presents 
additional risks of cyber attacks, as do hybrid work 
arrangements. In addition, due to our interconnectivity with 
third-party vendors (and their respective service providers), 
agent banks, exchanges, clearinghouses and other financial 
institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is 
subject to a successful cyber attack or other information 
security event. These impacts could include the loss of access 
to information or services from the third party subject to the 
cyber attack or other information security event or could 
result in unauthorized access to or disclosure of client, 
customer or other confidential information, which could, in 
turn, interrupt certain of our businesses or adversely affect 
our results of operations and reputation. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
43
Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and 
information, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or 
implement effective preventive measures against all cyber 
threats, 
including 
because 
the 
techniques 
used 
are 
increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often 
not recognized until launched. Cyber attacks can originate 
from a variety of sources, including third parties who are 
affiliated with or sponsored by foreign governments or are 
involved with organized crime or terrorist organizations. 
Third parties may also attempt to place individuals in our 
offices or induce employees, clients or other users of our 
systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to 
our data or that of our clients, and these types of risks may be 
difficult to detect or prevent. 
Although we take protective measures proactively and 
endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our 
computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable 
to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other 
malicious code, cyber attacks on our vendors and other 
events that could have a security impact. Risks relating to 
cyber attacks on our vendors have been increasing given the 
greater frequency and severity in recent years of supply chain 
attacks affecting software and information technology service 
providers. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of 
our systems, the process of enhancing our protective 
measures can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and 
security issues. In addition, protective measures that we 
employ to compartmentalize our data may reduce our 
visibility into, and adversely affect our ability to respond to, 
cyber threats and issues with our systems.
If one or more of these types of events occur, it potentially 
could jeopardize our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third 
parties’ confidential and other information processed, stored 
in, or transmitted through our computer systems and 
networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions 
in our operations or those of our clients, counterparties or 
third parties, which could impact their ability to transact 
with us or otherwise result in legal or regulatory action, 
significant losses or reputational damage. In addition, such 
an event could persist for an extended period of time before 
being properly detected or escalated, and, following detection 
or escalation, it could take considerable time for us to obtain 
full and reliable information about the extent, amount and 
type of information compromised. During the course of an 
investigation, we may not know the full impact of the event 
and how to remediate it, and actions, decisions and mistakes 
that are taken or made may further increase the negative 
effects of the event on our business, results of operations and 
reputation. Moreover, regulations require us to disclose 
information on a timely basis about material cybersecurity 
incidents, including those that may not have been resolved or 
fully investigated at the time of disclosure.
We have expended, and expect to continue to expend, 
significant resources on an ongoing basis to modify our 
protective measures and to investigate and remediate 
vulnerabilities or other exposures, but these measures may be 
ineffective and we may be subject to legal or regulatory 
action, as well as financial losses that are either not insured 
against or not fully covered through any insurance 
maintained by us. Regulatory agencies have become 
increasingly focused on cybersecurity incidents.
Our clients’ confidential information may also be at risk 
from the compromise of clients’ accounts, including as a 
result of a data security breach at an unrelated company. 
Losses due to unauthorized account activity could harm our 
reputation and may have adverse effects on our business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
The increased use of mobile and cloud technologies heightens 
these and other operational risks, as do hybrid work 
arrangements. Certain aspects of the security of these 
technologies are unpredictable or beyond our control, and 
the failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers 
to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber 
attacks could disrupt our operations and result in 
misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and 
other information. In addition, there is a risk that encryption 
and other protective measures, despite their sophistication, 
may be defeated, particularly to the extent that new 
computing technologies, such as quantum computing, vastly 
increase the speed and computing power available.
We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and 
proprietary information by email and other electronic means. 
We have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service 
providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop 
secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber 
attacks, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in 
place, secure capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, 
service providers, counterparties and other third parties and 
we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have 
appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of 
the information. An interception, misuse or mishandling of 
personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent 
to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, 
counterparty or other third party could result in legal 
liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
44
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We have in the past incurred and may in the future 
incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management 
processes and strategies.
We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a 
risk and control framework encompassing a variety of 
separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, 
compliance and legal systems, internal controls, management 
review 
processes 
and 
other 
mechanisms. 
Our 
risk 
management process seeks to balance our ability to profit 
from market-making, investing or lending positions, and 
underwriting activities, with our exposure to potential losses. 
While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk 
monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques 
and the judgments that accompany their application cannot 
anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the 
specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, in the course of 
our activities, we have incurred and may in the future incur 
losses. Market conditions in recent years have involved 
unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations 
inherent in using historical data to manage risk.
The models that we use to assess and control our risk 
exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of 
correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset 
classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress 
or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated 
indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously 
correlated indicators may move in different directions. These 
types of market movements have at times limited the 
effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to 
incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. 
These changes in correlation have been and may in the future 
be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk 
or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are 
similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to 
reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market 
participants or widespread market dislocations, including 
circumstances where asset values are declining significantly 
or no market exists for certain assets. 
In addition, the use of models in connection with risk 
management and numerous other critical activities presents 
risks that the models may be ineffective, either because of 
poor design, ineffective testing, or improper or flawed inputs, 
as well as unpermitted access to the models resulting in 
unapproved or malicious changes to the model or its inputs.
To the extent that we have positions through our market-
making or origination activities or we make investments 
directly through our investing activities, including private 
equity or private credit, that do not have an established liquid 
trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale 
or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and 
therefore reduce our risk associated with those positions. In 
addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and 
regulation, we invest our own capital in private equity, 
credit, real estate and hedge funds that we manage and 
limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our 
investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or 
other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control 
the risk exposures relating to these investments. 
Prudent risk management, as well as regulatory restrictions, 
may cause us to limit our exposure to counterparties, 
geographic areas or markets, which may limit our business 
opportunities and increase the cost of our funding or hedging 
activities.
Our consumer offerings present us with different risks, and 
we have needed and continue to need to expand and adapt 
our risk monitoring and mitigation activities to account for 
these business activities. A failure to adequately assess and 
control such risk exposures has in the past resulted and could 
in the future result in losses to us.
For further information about our risk management policies 
and procedures, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk 
Management” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
45
Legal and Regulatory
Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to 
extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.
As a participant in the financial services industry and a 
systemically important financial institution, we are subject to 
extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. We 
face the risk of significant intervention by law enforcement, 
regulatory and taxing authorities, as well as private litigation, 
in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. In 
many cases, our activities have been and may continue to be 
subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different 
jurisdictions. Among other things, as a result of law 
enforcement authorities, regulators or private parties 
challenging our compliance with existing laws and 
regulations, we or our employees have been, and could be, 
fined, criminally charged or sanctioned; prohibited from 
engaging in some of our business activities; subjected to 
limitations or conditions on our business activities, including 
higher capital requirements; or subjected to new or 
substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in 
connection with the conduct of our businesses or with respect 
to our employees. These limitations or conditions may limit 
our 
business 
activities 
and 
negatively 
impact 
our 
profitability. 
In addition to the impact on the scope and profitability of our 
business activities, day-to-day compliance with existing laws 
and regulations has involved and will continue to involve 
significant amounts of time, including that of our senior 
leaders and that of a large number of dedicated compliance 
and other reporting and operational personnel, in connection 
with which we expect to continue to add personnel, all of 
which may negatively impact our profitability.
Our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors 
have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements 
relating to capital, leverage, liquidity and long-term funding 
levels, requirements related to resolution and recovery 
planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of 
regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on which and, if 
permitted, how certain business activities may be carried out 
by financial institutions. The laws, regulations and 
accounting standards, that apply to our businesses are often 
complex and, in many cases, we must make interpretive 
decisions regarding the application of those laws, regulations 
and accounting standards to our business activities. Changes 
in interpretations, whether in response to regulatory 
guidance, industry conventions, our own reassessments or 
otherwise, could adversely affect our businesses, results of 
operations or ability to satisfy applicable regulatory 
requirements, such as capital or liquidity requirements.
If there are new laws or regulations or changes in the 
interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations 
applicable to our businesses or those of our clients, including 
capital, liquidity, leverage, long-term debt, total loss-
absorbing capacity and margin requirements, restrictions on 
leveraged lending or other business practices, reporting 
requirements, 
requirements 
relating 
to 
recovery 
and 
resolution 
planning, 
tax 
burdens 
and 
compensation 
restrictions, that are imposed on a limited subset of financial 
institutions (whether based on size, method of funding, 
activities, geography or other criteria), compliance with these 
new laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of 
existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our ability 
to compete effectively with other institutions that are not 
affected in the same way. In addition, regulation imposed on 
financial institutions or market participants generally, such 
as taxes on stock transfers, share repurchases and other 
financial transactions, could adversely impact levels of 
market activity more broadly, and thus impact our 
businesses. Changes to laws or regulations, such as tax laws, 
could also have a disproportionate impact on us, based on 
the way those laws or regulations are applied to financial 
services and financial firms or due to our corporate structure 
or where or how we provide these services. Recent political 
developments have added additional uncertainty with respect 
to new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretations 
or enforcement of existing laws and regulations.
These developments could impact our profitability in the 
affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to 
continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in those 
jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs 
associated with changing our business practices, restructuring 
our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and 
our employees to other locations or complying with 
applicable capital requirements, including reducing dividends 
or share repurchases, liquidating assets or raising capital in a 
manner that adversely increases our funding costs or 
otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
46
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory developments, in particular the 
Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, have significantly altered the 
regulatory framework within which we operate and have 
adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our 
profitability. Among the aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act that 
have affected or may in the future affect our businesses are: 
increased capital, liquidity and reporting requirements; 
limitations on activities in which we may engage; increased 
regulation of and restrictions on OTC derivatives markets 
and transactions; limitations on incentive compensation; 
limitations on affiliate transactions; requirements to 
reorganize or limit activities in connection with recovery and 
resolution planning; increased deposit insurance assessments; 
and increased standards of care for broker-dealers and 
investment 
advisers 
in 
dealing 
with 
clients. 
The 
implementation of higher capital requirements, more 
stringent requirements relating to liquidity, long-term debt 
and total loss-absorbing capacity and the prohibition on 
proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, or investment in, 
covered funds by the Volcker Rule may continue to adversely 
affect our profitability and competitive position, particularly 
where these requirements do not apply equally to our 
competitors. We may become subject to higher and more 
stringent capital and other regulatory requirements as a result 
of the implementation of the Basel Committee’s finalization 
of the post-crisis regulatory capital reforms as well as future 
Basel Committee standards. Substantial parts of the E.U. 
rules implementing the Basel III Revisions became effective 
on January 1, 2025; the E.U. has delayed implementation of 
the FRTB rules to January 1, 2026; the U.K. issued near final 
rules implementing the Basel III revisions with a proposed 
effective date of January 1, 2027; and the FRB has indicated 
that it expects to work with the other U.S. federal bank 
regulatory agencies in 2025 on a revised proposal. See 
“Business — Regulation — Banking Supervision and 
Regulation — Risk-Based Capital Ratios” in Part I, Item 1 of 
this Form 10-K for further information about proposed and 
adopted regulatory requirements.
As described in “Business — Regulation — Banking 
Supervision and Regulation — Risk-Based Capital Ratios” in 
Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K, the SCB has replaced the 
capital conservation buffer under the Standardized Capital 
Rules and resulted in higher and more volatile Standardized 
capital ratio requirements. Failure to comply with these 
requirements could limit our ability to, among other things, 
repurchase shares, pay dividends and make certain 
discretionary compensation payments. In addition, if we are 
required to resubmit our capital plan, we generally may not 
make capital distributions, such as share repurchases or 
dividends, without the prior approval of the FRB. Dividends 
and repurchases are also subject to oversight by the FRB, 
which can result in limitations. Limitations on our ability to 
make capital distributions could, among other things, prevent 
us from returning capital to our shareholders and impact our 
return on equity. Additionally, as a G-SIB, we are subject to 
the G-SIB surcharge. Our G-SIB surcharge is updated 
annually based on financial data from the prior year. 
Expansion of our businesses, growth in our balance sheet and 
increased reliance on short-term wholesale funding have 
resulted in increases and in the future may result in further 
increases in our G-SIB surcharge and a corresponding 
increase in our capital requirements. Effective on January 1, 
2026, our G-SIB surcharge is expected to increase from 3.0% 
to 3.5%. The July 2023 proposal from the FRB would 
introduce additional granularity in the surcharge buckets and 
increase the amount of financial data used in the calculation 
of the G-SIB surcharge based on averages over the year, as 
opposed to period-end values, which could increase our G-
SIB surcharge.
We are also subject to laws and regulations, such as the 
GDPR and the California Consumer Privacy Act, relating to 
the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, 
and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations 
could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. As 
new privacy-related laws and regulations are implemented, 
the time and resources needed for us to comply with such 
laws and regulations, as well as our potential liability for 
non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of data 
breaches, may significantly increase. 
In addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws 
and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data 
on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 
Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us 
to change our policies, procedures and technology for 
information security, which could, among other things, make 
us more vulnerable to cyber attacks and misappropriation, 
corruption or loss of information or technology.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
47
Our consumer-oriented deposit-taking and credit card 
businesses subject us to numerous additional regulations in 
the jurisdictions in which these businesses operate. Not only 
are these regulations extensive, but they involve types of 
regulations and supervision, as well as regulatory compliance 
risks, that have not historically applied to us. The level of 
regulatory scrutiny and the scope of regulations affecting 
financial interactions with consumers is often much greater 
than that associated with doing business with institutions and 
high-net-worth individuals. Complying with these regulations 
is time-consuming, costly and presents new and increased 
risks.
GS Bank USA is assessed pursuant to a strategic plan for 
CRA compliance purposes. Any failure to comply with CRA 
requirements could negatively impact GS Bank USA’s CRA 
ratings, cause reputational harm and result in limits on our 
ability to make future acquisitions or engage in certain new 
activities.
Increasingly, regulators and courts have sought to hold 
financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients 
where they have determined that the financial institution 
should have detected that the client was engaged in 
wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no 
direct knowledge of the activities engaged in by its client. 
Regulators and courts have also increasingly found liability 
as a “control person” for activities of entities in which 
financial institutions or funds controlled by financial 
institutions have an investment, but which they do not 
actively manage. In addition, regulators and courts continue 
to seek to establish “fiduciary” obligations to counterparties 
to which no such duty had been thought to exist. To the 
extent that such efforts are successful, the cost of, and 
liabilities associated with, engaging in brokerage, clearing, 
market-making, prime financing, investing and other similar 
activities could increase significantly. To the extent that we 
have fiduciary obligations in connection with acting as a 
financial adviser or investment adviser or in other roles for 
individual, institutional, sovereign or investment fund clients, 
any breach, or even an alleged breach, of such obligations 
could have materially negative legal, regulatory and 
reputational consequences.
For information about the extensive regulation to which our 
businesses are subject, see “Business — Regulation” in Part I, 
Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
A failure to appropriately identify and address 
potential conflicts of interest has in the past and may 
in the future adversely affect our businesses.
Due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, 
we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including 
situations where our services to a particular client or our own 
investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to 
conflict, with the interests of that client or another client, as 
well as situations where one or more of our businesses have 
access to material non-public information that may not be 
shared with our other businesses and situations where we 
may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an 
advisory or other relationship.
In addition, our status as a BHC subjects us to heightened 
regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the FRB with 
respect to transactions between GS Bank USA and its 
subsidiaries and entities that are or could be viewed as 
affiliates of ours and, under the Volcker Rule, transactions 
between us and covered funds.
We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed 
to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those 
designed to prevent the improper sharing of information 
among our businesses. However, appropriately identifying 
and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, 
and our reputation, which is one of our most important 
assets, could be damaged and the willingness of clients to 
enter into transactions with us may be adversely affected if 
we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal 
appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential 
or perceived conflicts have in the past and may in the future 
give rise to litigation, government investigations or 
enforcement actions. Additionally, our One Goldman Sachs 
initiative, as well as the alignment of our businesses, aim to 
increase collaboration among our businesses, which may 
increase the potential for actual or perceived conflicts of 
interest and improper information sharing.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
48
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We 
may 
be 
adversely 
affected 
by 
increased 
governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative 
publicity.
Governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies 
and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating 
to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and 
other matters remains at high levels. Political and public 
sentiment regarding financial institutions has in the past 
resulted and may in the future result in a significant amount 
of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or 
charges by regulators or other government officials. Press 
coverage and other public statements that assert some form 
of wrongdoing (including, in some cases, press coverage and 
public statements that do not directly involve us) often result 
in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and 
law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. 
Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of 
the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming 
and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior 
management from our business. Penalties and fines sought by 
regulatory authorities have increased substantially and 
certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to 
commence enforcement actions or to support legislation 
targeted at the financial services industry. Governmental 
authorities may also be more likely to pursue criminal or 
other actions, including seeking admissions of wrongdoing or 
guilty pleas, in connection with the resolution of an inquiry 
or investigation to the extent a company is viewed as having 
previously engaged in criminal, regulatory or other 
misconduct. Adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and 
legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative 
impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance 
of our employees, which could adversely affect our businesses 
and results of operations. Further, we are subject to 
regulatory settlements, orders and feedback that require 
significant remediation activities and enhancements to 
existing controls, systems and procedures, which has required 
and will require us to commit significant resources, including 
hiring, as well as testing the operation and effectiveness of 
new controls, policies and procedures. The failure to 
complete these remediation activities in a timely manner 
could lead to higher operating expenses, reputational damage 
and other negative consequences.
The financial services industry generally and our businesses 
in particular have been subject to negative publicity. Our 
reputation and businesses may be adversely affected by 
negative publicity or information regarding our businesses, 
personnel, corporate engagement programs and other 
initiatives, whether or not accurate or true, that may be 
posted on social media or other internet forums or published 
by news organizations. Postings on these types of forums may 
also adversely impact risk positions of our clients and other 
parties that owe us money, securities or other assets and 
increase the chance that they will not perform their 
obligations to us or reduce the revenues we receive from their 
use of our services. The speed and pervasiveness with which 
information can be disseminated through these channels, in 
particular social media, may magnify risks relating to 
negative publicity.
In 2023, the rapid dissemination of negative information 
through social media, in part, is believed to have led to the 
collapse of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). SVB suffered a level of 
deposit withdrawals within a time period not previously 
experienced by a financial institution. We could also be 
subject to rapid deposit withdrawals or other outflows as a 
result of negative social media posts or other negative 
publicity. 
Substantial civil or criminal liability or significant 
regulatory action against us has in the past had and 
may in the future have material adverse financial 
effects and significant reputational consequences, 
which in turn could seriously harm our business 
prospects.
We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the 
volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties 
claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against 
financial institutions remain high. See Notes 18 and 27 to the 
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 
Form 10-K for information about certain of our legal and 
regulatory proceedings and investigations. We have seen legal 
claims by consumers and clients increase in a market 
downturn and employment-related claims increase following 
periods in which we have reduced our headcount. 
Additionally, governmental entities have been plaintiffs and 
are parties in certain of our legal proceedings, and we may 
face future civil or criminal actions or claims by the same or 
other governmental entities, as well as follow-on civil 
litigation that is often commenced after regulatory 
settlements.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
49
Significant settlements by large financial institutions, 
including, in some cases, us, with governmental entities have 
become common. The trend of large settlements with 
governmental entities may adversely affect the outcomes for 
other financial institutions, including, in some cases, us, in 
similar actions, especially where governmental officials have 
announced that the large settlements will be used as the basis 
or a template for other settlements. The uncertain regulatory 
enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate 
probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities 
between legal reserves and subsequent actual settlements or 
penalties. 
Claims of collusion or anti-competitive conduct have become 
more common. Financial institutions (including us) have been 
subject to civil cases and investigatory demands relating to 
alleged bid-rigging, group boycotts or other anti-competitive 
practices. Antitrust laws generally provide for joint and 
several liability and treble damages. These claims have 
resulted in significant settlements and fines for us in the past 
and may do so in the future.
We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, including 
the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, relating to corrupt and 
illegal payments to, and hiring practices with regard to, 
government officials and others. Violation of these or similar 
laws and regulations have in the past resulted in and could in 
the future result in significant monetary penalties. Such 
violations could also result in severe restrictions on our 
activities and damage to our reputation.
Certain law enforcement authorities have recently required 
admissions of wrongdoing, and, in some cases, criminal 
pleas, as part of the resolutions of matters brought against 
financial institutions or their employees. See for example, 
“1MDB-Related Matters” in Note 27 to the consolidated 
financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Any 
such resolution of a criminal matter involving us or our 
employees could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation, 
could adversely affect our reputation, could result in 
penalties or limitations on our ability to conduct our 
activities generally or in certain circumstances and could have 
other negative effects. Further, as a result of this type of 
settlement, we are no longer a “well-known seasoned issuer,” 
which places limitations on the manner in which we can 
market our securities.
In conducting our businesses around the world, we 
are subject to political, legal, regulatory, tax and other 
risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.
In conducting our businesses and supporting our global 
operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, 
expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange 
controls, communications and other content restrictions, and 
other restrictive governmental actions. For example, 
sanctions have been imposed by the U.S. and the E.U. on 
certain individuals and companies in Russia and Venezuela. 
In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the 
securities and financial services industries and many of the 
transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and 
evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact 
requirements of local laws in every market. We have been, in 
some cases, subject to divergent and conflicting laws and 
regulations across markets, and we are increasingly subject to 
the risk that the jurisdictions in which we operate have 
implemented or may implement laws and regulations that 
directly conflict with those of another jurisdiction. Any 
determination by local regulators that we have not acted in 
compliance with the application of local laws in a particular 
market or our failure to develop effective working 
relationships with local regulators could have a significant 
and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market, 
but also on our reputation generally. Further, in some 
jurisdictions a failure, or alleged failure, to comply with laws 
and regulations has subjected and may in the future subject 
us and our personnel not only to civil actions, but also 
criminal actions and other sanctions. We are also subject to 
the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be 
legally enforceable in all cases. 
While business and other practices throughout the world 
differ, our principal entities are subject in their operations 
worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and 
illegal payments, hiring practices and money laundering, as 
well as laws relating to doing business with certain 
individuals, groups and countries, such as the FCPA, the BSA 
and the U.K. Bribery Act. While we have invested and 
continue to invest significant resources in training and in 
compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our 
operations, employees, clients and consumers, as well as the 
vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly 
increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such 
rules or regulations and such violations have in the past and 
could in the future subject us to significant penalties or 
adversely affect our reputation. See for example, “1MDB-
Related Matters” in Note 27 to the consolidated financial 
statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
50
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In addition, there have been a number of highly publicized 
cases around the world, involving actual or alleged fraud or 
other misconduct by employees in the financial services 
industry, and we have had and may in the future have 
employee misconduct. This misconduct has included and 
may also in the future include intentional efforts to ignore or 
circumvent applicable policies, rules or procedures or 
misappropriation of funds and the theft of proprietary 
information, including proprietary software. It is not always 
possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the 
precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have 
not been and may not be effective in all cases, as reflected by 
the settlements relating to 1MDB.
The 
application 
of 
regulatory 
strategies 
and 
requirements in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions 
to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial 
institutions could create greater risk of loss for Group 
Inc.’s security holders.
As described in “Business — Regulation — Banking 
Supervision and Regulation — Insolvency of an IDI or a 
BHC,” if the FDIC is appointed as receiver under OLA, the 
rights of Group Inc.’s creditors would be determined under 
OLA, and substantial differences exist in the rights of 
creditors between OLA and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, 
including the right of the FDIC under OLA to disregard the 
strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, which 
could have a material adverse effect on our debtholders.
The FDIC has announced that a single point of entry strategy 
may be a desirable strategy under OLA to resolve a large 
financial institution in a manner that would, among other 
things, impose losses on shareholders, debtholders and other 
creditors of the top-tier BHC (in our case, Group Inc.), while 
the BHC’s subsidiaries may continue to operate. It is possible 
that the application of the single point of entry strategy under 
OLA, in which Group Inc. would be the only entity to enter 
resolution proceedings (and its material broker-dealer, bank 
and other operating entities would not enter resolution 
proceedings), would result in greater losses to Group Inc.’s 
security holders (including holders of our fixed rate, floating 
rate and indexed debt securities), than the losses that would 
result from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a 
different resolution strategy, such as a multiple point of entry 
resolution strategy for Group Inc. and certain of its material 
subsidiaries.
Assuming Group Inc. entered resolution proceedings and 
support from Group Inc. or other resources available to its 
subsidiaries was sufficient to enable the subsidiaries to 
remain solvent, losses at the subsidiary level would be 
transferred to Group Inc. and ultimately borne by Group 
Inc.’s security holders, third-party creditors of Group Inc.’s 
subsidiaries would receive full recoveries on their claims, and 
Group Inc.’s security holders (including our shareholders, 
debtholders and other unsecured creditors) could face 
significant and possibly complete losses. In that case, Group 
Inc.’s security holders would face losses while the third-party 
creditors of Group Inc.’s subsidiaries would incur no losses 
because the subsidiaries would continue to operate and 
would not enter resolution or bankruptcy proceedings. In 
addition, holders of Group Inc.’s eligible long-term debt and 
holders of Group Inc.’s other debt securities could face losses 
ahead of its other similarly situated creditors in a resolution 
under OLA if the FDIC exercised its right, described above, 
to disregard the priority of creditor claims.
OLA also provides the FDIC with authority to cause 
creditors and shareholders of the financial company in 
receivership to bear losses before taxpayers are exposed to 
such losses, and amounts owed to the U.S. government would 
generally receive a statutory payment priority over the claims 
of private creditors, including senior creditors.
In addition, under OLA, claims of creditors (including 
debtholders) could be satisfied through the issuance of equity 
or other securities in a bridge entity to which Group Inc.’s 
assets are transferred. If such a securities-for-claims exchange 
were implemented, there can be no assurance that the value 
of the securities of the bridge entity would be sufficient to 
repay or satisfy all or any part of the creditor claims for 
which the securities were exchanged. While the FDIC has 
issued regulations to implement OLA, not all aspects of how 
the FDIC might exercise this authority are known and 
additional rulemaking is possible.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
51
In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the U.K. and the 
E.U., have implemented resolution regimes to provide 
resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing 
entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its 
unsecured debt into equity. Such “bail-in” powers are 
intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution 
by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured 
debtholders. For example, the Bank of England requires a 
certain amount of intercompany funding that we provide to 
our material U.K. subsidiaries to contain a contractual trigger 
to expressly permit the Bank of England to exercise such 
“bail-in” 
powers 
in 
certain 
circumstances. 
If 
the 
intercompany funding we provide to our subsidiaries is 
“bailed in,” Group Inc.’s claims on its subsidiaries would be 
subordinated to the claims of the subsidiaries’ third-party 
creditors or written down. U.S. regulators are considering 
and non-U.S. authorities have adopted requirements that 
certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain 
minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that 
would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the top-tier 
BHC and, ultimately, to security holders of the top-tier BHC 
in the event of failure.
The application of Group Inc.’s proposed resolution 
strategy could result in greater losses for Group Inc.’s 
security holders.
In our resolution plan, Group Inc. would be resolved under 
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The strategy described in our 
resolution plan is a variant of the single point of entry 
strategy: Group Inc. and Goldman Sachs Funding LLC 
(Funding IHC), a wholly-owned, direct subsidiary of Group 
Inc., would recapitalize and provide liquidity to certain major 
subsidiaries, 
including 
through 
the 
forgiveness 
of 
intercompany indebtedness, the extension of the maturities of 
intercompany indebtedness and the extension of additional 
intercompany loans. If this strategy were successful, creditors 
of some or all of Group Inc.’s major subsidiaries would 
receive full recoveries on their claims, while Group Inc.’s 
security holders could face significant and possibly complete 
losses. 
To facilitate the execution of our resolution plan, we formed 
Funding IHC. In exchange for an unsecured subordinated 
funding note and equity interest, Group Inc. transferred 
certain intercompany receivables and substantially all of its 
GCLA to Funding IHC, and agreed to transfer additional 
GCLA above prescribed thresholds.
We also put in place a Capital and Liquidity Support 
Agreement (CLSA) among Group Inc., Funding IHC and our 
major subsidiaries. Under the CLSA, Funding IHC has 
provided Group Inc. with a committed line of credit that 
allows Group Inc. to draw sufficient funds to meet its cash 
needs during the ordinary course of business. In addition, if 
our financial resources deteriorate so severely that resolution 
may be imminent, (i) the committed line of credit will 
automatically terminate and the unsecured subordinated 
funding note will automatically be forgiven, (ii) all 
intercompany receivables owed by the major subsidiaries to 
Group Inc. will be transferred to Funding IHC or their 
maturities will be extended to five years, (iii) Group Inc. will 
be obligated to transfer substantially all of its remaining 
intercompany receivables and GCLA (other than an amount 
to fund anticipated bankruptcy expenses) to Funding IHC, 
and (iv) Funding IHC will be obligated to provide capital and 
liquidity support to the major subsidiaries. Group Inc.’s and 
Funding IHC’s obligations under the CLSA are secured 
pursuant to a related security agreement. Such actions would 
materially and adversely affect Group Inc.’s liquidity. As a 
result, during a period of severe stress, Group Inc. might 
commence bankruptcy proceedings at an earlier time than it 
otherwise would if the CLSA and related security agreement 
had not been implemented.
If Group Inc.’s proposed resolution strategy were successful, 
Group Inc.’s security holders could face losses while the 
third-party creditors of Group Inc.’s major subsidiaries 
would incur no losses because those subsidiaries would 
continue to operate and not enter resolution or bankruptcy 
proceedings. As part of the strategy, Group Inc. could also 
seek to elevate the priority of its guarantee obligations 
relating to its major subsidiaries’ derivative contracts or 
transfer them to another entity so that cross-default and early 
termination rights would be stayed under the ISDA 
Protocols, as applicable, which would result in holders of 
Group Inc.’s eligible long-term debt and holders of Group 
Inc.’s other debt securities incurring losses ahead of the 
beneficiaries of those guarantee obligations. It is also possible 
that holders of Group Inc.’s eligible long-term debt and other 
debt securities could incur losses ahead of other similarly 
situated creditors of Group Inc.’s major subsidiaries. 
If Group Inc.’s proposed resolution strategy were not 
successful, Group Inc.’s financial condition would be 
adversely impacted and Group Inc.’s security holders, 
including debtholders, may as a consequence be in a worse 
position than if the strategy had not been implemented. In all 
cases, any payments to debtholders are dependent on our 
ability to make such payments and are therefore subject to 
our credit risk.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
52
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
As a result of our recovery and resolution planning processes, 
including incorporating feedback from our regulators, we 
may incur increased operational, funding or other costs and 
face limitations on our ability to structure our internal 
organization or engage in internal or external activities in a 
manner that we may otherwise deem most operationally 
efficient. 
Our commodities activities, particularly our physical 
commodities activities, subject us to extensive 
regulation 
and 
involve 
certain 
potential 
risks, 
including environmental, reputational and other risks 
that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs.
As part of our commodities business, we purchase and sell 
certain physical commodities, arrange for their storage and 
transport, and engage in market making of commodities. The 
commodities involved in these activities may include crude 
oil, refined oil products, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, 
electric power, agricultural products, base, precious and 
other metals, minerals (including unenriched uranium), 
emission credits, coal, freight and related products and 
indices.
We make investments in and finance entities that engage in 
the production, storage and transportation of numerous 
commodities, including many of the commodities referenced 
above.
These activities subject us and/or the entities in which we 
invest to extensive and evolving federal, state and local 
energy, environmental, antitrust and other governmental 
laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental 
laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, 
water quality, waste management, transportation of 
hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and 
health and safety. Additionally, rising climate change 
concerns have led to additional laws and regulations, 
regulatory scrutiny and disclosure obligations that have 
increased and could further increase the operating costs and 
could adversely affect the profitability of certain of our 
investments and activities.
There may be substantial costs in complying with current or 
future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-
related activities and investments. Compliance with these 
laws and regulations requires significant commitments of 
capital toward environmental and operational monitoring, 
development of appropriate operational and supervisory 
procedures and processes, payment of emission fees and 
carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, 
permits and licenses. 
Commodities involved in our intermediation activities and 
investments are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or 
catastrophic events, which are likely to be outside of our 
control, including those arising from the breakdown or 
failure of third-party or service providers' transport vessels, 
storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other 
mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of 
hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of 
output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, extreme weather events 
or other natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic 
events. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers or service 
providers to perform their contractual obligations and any 
failure on their part, including the failure to supply or to 
safely transport or store commodities, could expose us to 
costs or losses. Also, while we seek to insure against potential 
risks, we do not have insurance to cover some of these risks 
and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover 
our losses.
The occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from 
performing under our agreements with clients, may impair 
our operations or financial results and may result in 
litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other 
reputational harm.
We have made changes to and may also be required to divest 
or discontinue certain of these activities for regulatory or 
legal reasons or due to the transition to a less carbon-
dependent economy in response to climate change. 
Competition
Our results have been and may in the future be 
adversely affected by the composition of our client 
base.
Our client base is not the same as that of our major 
competitors. Our businesses may have a higher or lower 
percentage of clients in certain industries or markets than 
some or all of our competitors. Therefore, unfavorable 
industry developments or market conditions affecting certain 
industries or markets have resulted in the past and may result 
in the future in our businesses underperforming relative to 
similar businesses of a competitor if our businesses have a 
higher concentration of clients in such industries or markets. 
For example, our market-making businesses have a higher 
percentage of clients with actively managed assets than some 
of our competitors and these clients have in the past been and 
may in the future be disproportionately affected by low 
volatility. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
53
Correspondingly, 
favorable 
or 
simply 
less 
adverse 
developments or market conditions involving industries or 
markets in a business where we have a lower concentration 
of clients in that industry or market have also resulted in the 
past and may result in the future in our underperforming 
relative to a similar business of a competitor that has a higher 
concentration of clients in that industry or market. For 
example, we have a smaller corporate client base in our 
market-making businesses than some of our peers and 
therefore those competitors may benefit more from increased 
activity by corporate clients. Similarly, we have not 
historically engaged in retail equities intermediation to the 
same extent as other financial institutions, which has in the 
past affected and could in the future adversely affect our 
market share in equities execution.
The financial services industry is highly competitive.
The financial services industry and all of our businesses are 
intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We 
compete on the basis of a number of factors, including 
transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, 
reputation, creditworthiness and price. There has been 
substantial consolidation and convergence among companies 
in the financial services industry. This has hastened the 
globalization of the securities and other financial services 
markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to 
support our international operations and to execute large 
global transactions. As we have expanded into new business 
areas and new geographic regions, we have faced competitors 
with more experience and more established relationships 
with clients, regulators and industry participants in the 
relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to 
expand our businesses.
Governments and regulators have adopted regulations, 
imposed taxes, adopted compensation restrictions or 
otherwise put forward various proposals that have impacted 
or may impact our ability to conduct certain of our 
businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all in certain or all 
jurisdictions, including proposals relating to restrictions on 
the type of activities in which financial institutions are 
permitted to engage. These or other similar rules, many of 
which do not apply to all our U.S. or non-U.S. competitors, 
could impact our ability to compete effectively. 
Pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses 
have continued to increase, particularly in situations where 
some of our competitors may seek to increase market share 
by reducing prices. For example, in connection with 
investment banking and other assignments, in response to 
competitive pressure we have experienced, we have extended 
and priced credit at levels that, in some cases, have not fully 
compensated us for the risks we undertook. 
The financial services industry is highly interrelated in that a 
significant volume of transactions occur among a limited 
number of members of that industry. Many transactions are 
syndicated to other financial institutions, and financial 
institutions are often counterparties in transactions. This has 
led to claims by other market participants and regulators that 
such institutions have colluded in order to manipulate 
markets or market prices, including allegations that antitrust 
laws have been violated. While we have extensive procedures 
and controls that are designed to identify and prevent such 
activities, they may not be effective. Allegations of such 
activities, particularly by regulators, can have a negative 
reputational impact and can subject us to large fines and 
settlements, and potentially significant penalties, including 
treble damages.
The growth of electronic trading and the introduction 
of new products and technologies, including trading 
and 
distributed 
ledger 
technologies, 
such 
as 
cryptocurrencies, and AI technologies, has increased 
competition.
Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. 
The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new 
technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us 
with new challenges. Securities, futures and options 
transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on 
our own systems and through other alternative trading 
systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative 
trading systems will continue. Some of these alternative 
trading systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-
based market-making activities, and we may experience 
continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. In 
addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost 
electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to 
trading markets has caused and could continue to cause a 
reduction in commissions and spreads. As our clients 
increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, 
we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order 
routing and execution infrastructure. 
We have invested significant resources into the development 
of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, 
but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these 
systems will yield an adequate return, particularly given the 
generally lower commissions arising from electronic trades.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
54
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In addition, the emergence, adoption and evolution of new 
technologies, including distributed ledgers, such as digital 
assets and blockchain, and AI technologies, have required us 
to invest resources to adapt our existing products and 
services, and we expect to continue to make such 
investments, which could be material. The adoption and 
evolution of such new technologies may also increase our 
compliance and regulatory costs. Further, technologies, such 
as those based on distributed ledgers, that do not require 
intermediation could also significantly disrupt payments 
processing 
and 
other 
financial 
services. 
Regulatory 
limitations on our involvement in products and platforms 
involving digital assets and distributed ledger technologies 
may not apply equally or, in some cases, at all to certain of 
our competitors. We may not be as timely or successful in 
developing or integrating, or even able to develop or 
integrate, new products and technologies, such as those built 
on distributed ledgers or AI technologies, into our existing 
products and services, adapting to changes in client 
preferences or achieving market acceptance of our products 
and services., For example, our competitors may be more 
timely or successful in developing or integrating AI 
technologies to increase their productivity and reduce their 
costs or to provide better transaction execution or improved 
products and services to clients. Any of the foregoing could 
affect our ability to attract or retain clients, cause us to lose 
market share or result in service disruptions and in turn 
reduce our revenues or otherwise adversely affect us.
Our businesses would be adversely affected if we are 
unable to hire and retain qualified employees.
Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and 
efforts of highly skilled people; therefore, our continued 
ability to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage 
our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses 
and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract and 
retain a talented workforce. Factors that affect our ability to 
attract and retain such employees include the level and 
composition of our compensation and benefits, our 
reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly 
hiring, training and promoting qualified employees and 
government policies, including immigration policy. As a 
significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our 
employees is in the form of year-end discretionary 
compensation, a significant portion of which is in the form of 
deferred equity-related awards, declines in our profitability, 
or in the outlook for our future profitability, as well as 
regulatory limitations on compensation levels and terms, can 
negatively impact our ability to hire and retain highly 
qualified employees.
Competition from within the financial services industry and 
from businesses outside the financial services industry, 
including the technology industry, for qualified employees 
has often been intense. We have experienced increased 
competition in hiring and retaining employees to address the 
demands of our consumer-oriented businesses and our 
technology initiatives. This is also the case in emerging and 
growth markets, where we are often competing for qualified 
employees with entities that have a significantly greater 
presence or more extensive experience in the region. 
Laws or regulations in jurisdictions in which our operations 
are located that affect taxes on our employees’ income or the 
amount or composition of compensation, or that require us 
to disclose our or our competitors’ compensation practices, 
may also adversely affect our ability to hire and retain 
qualified employees in those jurisdictions.
As described further in “Business — Regulation —
Compensation Practices” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K, 
our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the 
standards of, the FRB. As a large global financial and 
banking institution, we are subject to limitations on 
compensation practices (which may or may not affect the 
companies with which we compete for talent) by the FRB, the 
PRA, the FCA, the FDIC and other regulators worldwide. 
These limitations have shaped our compensation practices, 
which has, in some cases, adversely affected our ability to 
attract and retain talented employees, in particular in relation 
to companies not subject to these limitations, and future 
legislation or regulation may have similar adverse effects.
Our operating expenses and efficiency ratio depend, in part, 
on our overall headcount and the proportion of our 
employees located in strategic locations. Our future human 
capital resource requirements and the benefits provided by 
strategic locations are uncertain, and we may not realize the 
benefits we anticipate.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
55
Market Developments and General Business 
Environment
Our businesses, financial condition, liquidity and 
results of operations have been and may in the future 
be adversely affected by unforeseen or catastrophic 
events, including pandemics, terrorist attacks, wars, 
extreme weather events or other natural disasters.
The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, 
including pandemics or other widespread health emergencies 
(or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), 
terrorist attacks, wars, extreme weather events, solar events 
or other natural disasters, could adversely affect our business, 
financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. These 
events could have such effects through economic or financial 
market disruptions or challenging economic or market 
conditions more generally, the deterioration of our 
creditworthiness or that of our counterparties, changes in 
consumer sentiment and consumer borrowing, spending and 
savings patterns, liquidity stress, or operational difficulties 
(such as travel limitations and limitations on occupancy in 
our offices) that impair our ability to manage our businesses.
Climate change could disrupt our businesses and 
adversely 
affect 
client 
activity 
levels 
and 
the 
creditworthiness of our clients and counterparties, 
and our actual or perceived action or inaction relating 
to climate change could result in damage to our 
reputation.
Climate change may cause or be a contributing factor to 
extreme weather events that disrupt operations at one or 
more of our primary locations, which may negatively affect 
our ability to service and interact with our clients, adversely 
affect the value of our investments, including our real estate 
investments, and reduce the availability or increase the cost 
of insurance. Climate change and the transition to a less 
carbon-dependent economy may also have a negative impact 
on the operations or financial condition of our clients and 
counterparties, which may decrease revenues from those 
clients and counterparties and increase the credit risk 
associated with loans and other credit exposures to those 
clients and counterparties. In addition, climate change may 
impact the broader economy. 
We are also exposed to risks resulting from changes in public 
policy, laws and regulations, or market and public 
perceptions and preferences in connection with the transition 
to a less carbon-dependent economy. These changes could 
adversely affect our business, results of operations and 
reputation. In addition, due to divergent stakeholder views 
regarding climate change, we are at increased risk that any 
actual or perceived action, or lack thereof, by us in 
connection with the transition to a less carbon-dependent 
economy will be perceived negatively by some stakeholders 
and adversely affect our business and reputation. If our 
response to climate change is subject to criticism, our 
business, reputation and efforts to recruit and retain 
employees may suffer. 
New laws, regulations or guidance relating to climate change, 
as well as the perspectives of government officials, regulators, 
shareholders, employees and other stakeholders regarding 
climate change, may affect whether and on what terms and 
conditions we engage in certain activities or offer certain 
products. Federal and state, and non-U.S. banking regulators 
and 
supervisory 
authorities, 
shareholders 
and 
other 
stakeholders have increasingly viewed financial institutions 
as playing an important role in helping to address risks 
related to climate change, both directly and with respect to 
their clients, which may result in financial institutions coming 
under increased requirements and expectations regarding the 
disclosure and management of their climate risks and related 
lending, investment and advisory activities. For example, in 
2023 we participated in a pilot climate scenario analysis 
exercise conducted by the FRB, the results of which were 
released in 2024. We are also subject to interagency guidance 
jointly issued by the FRB, FDIC, and OCC in 2023 regarding 
principles for climate-related financial risk management for 
large financial institutions. In addition, in 2023, the NYDFS 
issued guidance on the management of material financial 
risks from climate change, which applies to New York State-
regulated banking and mortgage institutions, including GS 
Bank USA. Additionally, certain states in which we operate 
have enacted or proposed laws or regulations regarding ESG 
matters, including laws or regulations that require climate-
related disclosures, that address the consideration of ESG 
factors in state investments or contracting, and that require 
financial institutions to broadly provide customers with 
access to financial services, many of which may have broad, 
extraterritorial application.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
56
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In the E.U., certain of our entities are expected to be subject 
in varying degrees to sustainability-related laws being 
implemented, including directives, such as the CSRD and the 
CSDDD, which would significantly expand the scope of ESG 
disclosure requirements applicable to us and impose stringent 
due diligence requirements with respect to adverse human 
rights and environmental impacts in our upstream business 
partners’ operations, as well as require us to put into effect a 
climate transition plan.
These, as well as any additional or heightened laws, 
regulations, guidance and expectations, have in the past 
subjected and may in the future, subject us to different and 
potentially conflicting requirements and expectations in the 
various jurisdictions in which we operate, and have in the 
past resulted in and could in the future result in increased 
regulatory, compliance or other costs or higher capital 
requirements. The risks associated with, and the perspective 
of government officials, regulators, shareholders, employees 
and other stakeholders regarding, climate change are 
continuing to evolve rapidly, which can make it difficult to 
assess the ultimate impact on us of climate change-related 
risks and uncertainties, but we expect that climate change-
related risks will increase over time. 
Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results 
of operations have been adversely affected by 
disruptions in the global economy caused by conflicts, 
and related sanctions and other developments.
The conflict between Russia and Ukraine has negatively 
affected the global economy. Governments around the world 
have responded to Russia’s invasion by imposing economic 
sanctions and export controls on certain industry sectors, 
including price caps on Russian oil, and on Russian 
businesses and persons. Compliance with economic sanctions 
and restrictions imposed by governments has increased our 
costs and otherwise adversely affected our business and may 
continue to do so. Russia has responded with its own 
restrictions against investors and countries outside Russia 
and has proposed additional measures aimed at non-Russian 
owned businesses. Businesses in the U.S. and globally have 
experienced shortages in materials and increased costs for 
transportation, energy, and raw materials due in part to the 
negative effects of the conflict on the global economy. 
The conflicts in the Middle East could also affect and harm 
our business and increase market uncertainty. The impact of 
these conflicts on our business and operations is uncertain 
and therefore cannot be predicted.
The escalation or continuation of these conflicts or other 
hostilities could result in, among other things, an increased 
risk of cyber attacks, an increased frequency and volume of 
failures to settle securities transactions, supply chain 
disruptions, higher inflation, lower consumer demand and 
increased volatility in commodity, currency and other 
financial markets. The extent and duration of the conflicts, 
sanctions and resulting market disruptions are impossible to 
predict, and the consequences for our business could be 
significant. 
If 
international 
political 
instability 
and 
geopolitical tensions continue or increase in any region in 
which we do business, our business and results of operations 
could be harmed. See “Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — 
Risk Management — Credit Risk Management — Selected 
Exposures — Country Exposures” for further information 
about our credit exposure to Russia and Ukraine. 
Certain 
of 
our 
businesses 
and 
our 
funding 
instruments may be adversely affected by changes in 
reference rates, currencies, indexes, baskets or ETFs 
to which products we offer or funding that we raise are 
linked.
Many of the products that we own or that we offer, such as 
structured notes, warrants, swaps or security-based swaps, 
pay interest or determine the principal amount to be paid at 
maturity or in the event of default by reference to rates or by 
reference to an index, currency, basket, ETF or other 
financial metric (the underlier). In the event that the 
composition of the underlier is significantly changed, by 
reference to rules governing such underlier or otherwise, the 
underlier ceases to exist (for example, in the event that a 
country withdraws from the Euro or links its currency to or 
delinks its currency from another currency or benchmark, an 
index or ETF sponsor materially alters the composition of an 
index or ETF, or stocks in a basket are delisted or become 
impermissible to be included in the index or ETF), the 
underlier ceases to be recognized as an acceptable market 
benchmark or there are legal or regulatory constraints on 
linking a financial instrument to the underlier, we may 
experience adverse effects. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
57
Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results 
of 
operations 
may 
be 
adversely 
affected 
by 
disruptions in the global economy caused by 
escalating tensions between the U.S. and China.
Continued or escalating tensions between the U.S. and China 
have resulted in and may result in additional changes to U.S. 
international trade and investment policies, which could 
disrupt international trade and investment, adversely affect 
financial markets, including market activity levels, and 
adversely impact our revenues. Continued or escalating 
tensions may also lead to the U.S., China or other countries 
taking other actions, which could include the implementation 
of sanctions, tariffs or foreign exchange measures, the large-
scale sale of U.S. Treasury securities or restrictions on cross-
border trade, investment or transfer of information or 
technology. Any such developments could adversely affect 
our or our clients’ businesses, as well as our financial 
condition, liquidity and results of operations, possibly 
materially.
A conflict, or concerns about a potential conflict, involving 
China and Taiwan, the U.S. or other countries could 
negatively impact financial markets and our or our clients’ 
businesses. Trade restrictions by the U.S. or other countries 
in response to a conflict or potential conflict involving China, 
including financial and economic sanctions and export 
controls against certain organizations or individuals, or 
actions taken by China in response to trade restrictions, 
could negatively impact our or our clients’ ability to conduct 
business in certain countries or with certain counterparties 
and could negatively impact regional and global financial 
markets and economic conditions. Any of the foregoing could 
adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity 
and results of operations, possibly materially. 
We face enhanced risks as we operate in new 
locations and transact with a broader array of clients 
and counterparties.
Our businesses, have in the past, and may in the future, bring 
us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and 
entities that are not within our traditional client and 
counterparty base, expose us to new asset classes and new 
markets, and present us with integration challenges. For 
example, we continue to transact business and invest in new 
regions, including a wide range of emerging and growth 
markets, and we expect this trend to continue. Various 
emerging and growth market countries have experienced 
severe economic and financial disruptions, including 
significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or 
threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency 
exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their 
economies. The possible effects of any of these conditions 
include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased 
volatility in financial markets generally. 
In our consumer-oriented activities, we have faced and 
continue to face compliance, legal and regulatory risk, 
increased reputational risk and increased operational risk due 
to, among other things, higher transaction volumes and 
significantly increased retention and transmission of 
consumer and client information. We are also subject to 
additional legal requirements, including with respect to 
suitability and consumer protection (for example, Regulation 
Best Interest, fair lending laws and regulations and privacy 
laws and regulations). Further, identity fraud may increase 
and credit reporting practices may change in a manner that 
makes it more difficult for financial institutions, such as us, 
to evaluate the creditworthiness of consumers.
In connection with our transaction banking activities, we face 
compliance, legal and regulatory risk, including with respect 
to 
know-your-customer, 
anti-money 
laundering 
and 
reporting requirements and prohibitions on transfers of 
property belonging to countries, entities and individuals 
subject to sanctions by U.S. or other governmental 
authorities. We are making significant enhancements to 
existing controls, systems and procedures to manage these 
risks.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
58
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
New business initiatives expose us to new and enhanced 
risks, 
including 
risks 
associated 
with 
dealing 
with 
governmental entities, reputational concerns arising from 
dealing with different types of clients, business partners, 
counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of 
these activities, increased credit-related, market, sovereign 
and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of 
terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in 
which certain assets are being operated or held or in which 
we 
interact 
with 
these 
clients, 
business 
partners, 
counterparties 
and 
investors. 
Legal, 
regulatory 
and 
reputational risks may also exist in connection with activities 
and transactions involving new products or markets where 
there is regulatory uncertainty or where there are different or 
conflicting regulations depending on the regulator or the 
jurisdiction involved, particularly where transactions in such 
products may involve multiple jurisdictions.
We have developed and pursued new business and strategic 
initiatives, including acquisitions, and may continue to do so. 
If and to the extent we are unable to successfully execute 
those initiatives, we may incur unanticipated costs and losses, 
and face other adverse consequences, such as negative 
reputational effects. In addition, the actual effects of pursuing 
those initiatives may differ, possibly materially, from the 
benefits that we expect to realize from them, such as 
generating additional revenues, achieving expense savings, 
reducing operational risk exposures or using capital and 
funding more efficiently. Engaging in new activities exposes 
us to a variety of risks, including that we may be unable to 
successfully develop new, competitive, efficient and effective 
systems and processes, and hire and retain the necessary 
personnel. Due to our lack of historical experience with 
unsecured consumer lending, our loan loss assumptions may 
prove to be incorrect and we may incur losses significantly 
above those which we originally anticipated in entering the 
business. 
In recent years, we have invested, and may continue to invest, 
more in businesses that we expect will generate a higher level 
of more consistent revenues. Such investments and 
acquisitions may not be successful or have returns similar to 
our other businesses. 
We may not be able to fully realize the expected 
benefits or synergies from acquisitions or other 
business initiatives in the time frames we expect, or at 
all.
We have engaged in selective acquisitions and may continue 
to do so in the future and these acquisitions may, individually 
or in the aggregate, be material to us. Any future acquisitions 
could involve the issuance of common stock and/or the 
payment of cash as consideration. The success of our 
acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate 
the acquired businesses and realize anticipated synergies, cost 
savings and growth opportunities. For example, in 2024, we 
sold GreenSky Holdings, LLC, which we had previously 
acquired, and in connection with the disposition we incurred 
a write-down of intangible assets and goodwill. Also in 2024, 
we entered into an agreement to transition the GM credit 
card program to another issuer and have incurred a write-
down of intangible assets in connection with that transaction. 
In any future acquisitions, we may face numerous risks and 
uncertainties in combining and integrating the relevant 
businesses and systems, including the need to combine or 
separate accounting and data processing systems and 
management controls and to integrate relationships with 
clients, counterparties, regulators and others in connection 
with acquisitions. Integration of acquired businesses is time-
consuming and could disrupt our ongoing businesses, 
produce unforeseen regulatory or operating difficulties, cause 
us to incur incremental expenses or require incremental 
financial, management and other resources. It is also possible 
that an acquisition, once announced, may not close due to the 
failure to satisfy applicable closing conditions, such as the 
receipt of necessary shareholder or regulatory approvals.
There is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be 
successfully integrated or yield all of the expected benefits 
and synergies in the time frames that we expect, or at all. If 
we are not able to integrate our acquisitions successfully, our 
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows 
could be adversely affected.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
59
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
There are no material unresolved written comments that 
were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the 
end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current 
reports under the Exchange Act.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management 
— Cybersecurity Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7 of this 
Form 10-K for further information about cybersecurity.
Item 2.  Properties
In the U.S. and elsewhere in the Americas, we have offices 
consisting of approximately 6.3 million square feet of leased 
and owned space. Our principal executive offices are located 
at 200 West Street, New York, New York and consist of 
approximately 2.1 million square feet. The building is located 
on a parcel leased from Battery Park City Authority pursuant 
to a ground lease. Under the lease, Battery Park City 
Authority holds title to all improvements, including the office 
building, subject to our right of exclusive possession and use 
until June 2069, the expiration date of the lease. Under the 
terms of the ground lease, we made a lump sum ground rent 
payment in June 2007 of $161 million for rent through the 
term of the lease. 
In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, we have offices 
consisting of approximately 1.8 million square feet of leased 
and owned space. Our European headquarters is located in 
London at Plumtree Court, consisting of approximately 
826,000 square feet under a lease which can be terminated in 
2039.
In Asia, Australia and New Zealand, we have offices 
consisting of approximately 2.9 million square feet, including 
our offices in India, and regional headquarters in Tokyo and 
Hong Kong. In India, we have offices with approximately 1.9 
million square feet, the majority of which have leases that 
will expire starting in 2028.
In the preceding paragraphs, square footage figures are 
provided only for properties that are used in the operation of 
our businesses. We regularly evaluate our space capacity in 
relation to current and projected headcount. We may incur 
exit costs in the future if we (i) reduce our space capacity or 
(ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in locations in 
which we operate and dispose of existing space that had been 
held for potential growth. These costs may be material to our 
operating results in a given period. 
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and 
arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in 
connection with the conduct of our businesses. Many of these 
proceedings are in early stages, and many of these cases seek 
an indeterminate amount of damages. We have estimated the 
upper end of the range of reasonably possible aggregate loss 
for matters where we have been able to estimate a range and 
we believe, based on currently available information, that the 
results of matters where we have not been able to estimate a 
range of reasonably possible loss, in the aggregate, will not 
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but 
may be material to our operating results in a given period. 
Given the range of litigation and investigations presently 
under way, our litigation expenses may remain high. See 
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations — Use of Estimates” in 
Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. See Notes 18 and 27 to the 
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 
Form 10-K for information about our reasonably possible 
aggregate loss estimate and judicial, regulatory and legal 
proceedings.
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
60
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
PART II
Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s 
Common Equity, Related Stockholder 
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities
The principal market on which our common stock is traded 
is the NYSE under the symbol “GS.” Information relating to 
the performance of our common stock from December 31, 
2019 through December 31, 2024 is set forth in 
“Supplemental Financial Information — Common Stock 
Performance” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. As of 
February 7, 2025, there were 5,251 holders of record of our 
common stock.
The table below presents purchases made by or on behalf of 
Group Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” (as defined in Rule 
10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act) of our common stock 
during the fourth quarter of 2024.
Total
Shares
Purchased
Average
Price Paid
Per Share
Total Shares
Purchased as
Part of a Publicly
Announced 
Program
Dollar Value of 
Remaining 
Authorized 
Repurchases
($ in millions)
October
1,146,242 $ 523.45 
1,146,242 $ 
17,604 
November
1,717,264 $ 582.31 
1,717,264 $ 
16,604 
December
668,161 $ 598.52 
668,161 $ 
16,204 
Total
3,531,667
3,531,667
 
In 2023, our Board approved a share repurchase program 
authorizing repurchases of up to $30 billion of our common 
stock. This program replaced our previous share repurchase 
program and has no set expiration or termination date. The 
share repurchases are effected primarily through regular 
open-market purchases (which may include repurchase plans 
designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 and accelerated share 
repurchases), the amounts and timing of which are 
determined primarily by our current and projected capital 
position, and capital deployment opportunities, but which 
may also be influenced by the evolution of current and future 
regulatory capital requirements, general market conditions 
and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common 
stock. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital 
Management 
and 
Regulatory 
Capital 
— 
Capital 
Management — Share Repurchase Program” in Part II, Item 
7 of this Form 10-K for further information.
Information relating to compensation plans under which our 
equity securities are authorized for issuance is presented in 
Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10-K.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
61
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations
Introduction 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc. or parent 
company), a Delaware corporation, together with its 
consolidated subsidiaries, is a leading global financial 
institution that delivers a broad range of financial services to 
a large and diversified client base that includes corporations, 
financial institutions, governments and individuals. Founded 
in 1869, we are headquartered in New York and maintain 
offices in all major financial centers around the world. We 
manage and report our activities in three business segments: 
Global Banking & Markets, Asset & Wealth Management 
and Platform Solutions. See “Results of Operations” for 
further information about our business segments. 
When we use the terms “we,” “us” and “our,” we mean 
Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. When we use 
the term “our subsidiaries,” we mean the consolidated 
subsidiaries of Group Inc. References to “this Form 10-K” are 
to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2024. All references to “the consolidated 
financial 
statements” 
or 
“Supplemental 
Financial 
Information” are to Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. All 
references to 2024, 2023 and 2022 refer to our years ended, or 
the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2024, 
December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Any 
reference to a future year refers to a year ending on December 
31 of that year. Certain reclassifications have been made to 
previously reported amounts to conform to the current 
presentation.  
Group Inc. is a bank holding company and a financial 
holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System (FRB). 
In this discussion and analysis of our financial condition and 
results of operations, we have included information that 
constitutes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning 
of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements 
are not historical facts or statements of current conditions, 
but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, 
many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and 
outside our control. 
By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are 
alerting you to the possibility that our actual results, financial 
condition, liquidity and capital actions may differ, possibly 
materially, from the anticipated results, financial condition, 
liquidity and capital actions in these forward-looking 
statements. Important factors that could cause our results, 
financial condition, liquidity and capital actions to differ 
from those in these statements include, among others, those 
described in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 
10-K and “Forward-Looking Statements” in Part I, Item 1 of 
this Form 10-K. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
62
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
These statements may relate to, among other things, (i) our 
future plans and results, including our target return on 
average common shareholders’ equity (ROE), return on 
average tangible common shareholders’ equity (ROTE), 
efficiency ratio, Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio 
and firmwide total credit alternative assets, and how they can 
be achieved, (ii) trends in or growth opportunities for our 
businesses, including the timing, costs, profitability, benefits 
and other aspects of business and strategic initiatives and 
their impact on our efficiency ratio, as well as the 
opportunities 
and 
challenges 
presented 
by 
artificial 
intelligence (AI), (iii) our level of future compensation 
expense, (iv) our Investment banking fees backlog and future 
advisory and capital markets results, (v) our expected interest 
income and interest expense, (vi) our expense savings and 
strategic locations initiatives, (vii) expenses we may incur, 
including future litigation expense, (viii) the projected growth 
of our deposits and other funding, asset liability management 
and funding strategies and related interest expense savings, 
(ix) our business initiatives, (x) our planned 2025 benchmark 
debt issuances, (xi) the amount, composition and location of 
global core liquid assets (GCLA) we expect to hold, (xii) our 
credit exposures, (xiii) our expected provision for credit 
losses, (xiv) the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses, 
(xv) the narrowing of our consumer business, (xvi) the 
objectives and effectiveness of our business continuity 
planning 
(BCP), 
information 
security 
program, 
risk 
management and liquidity policies, (xvii) our resolution plan 
and its implications for stakeholders, (xviii) the design and 
effectiveness of our resolution capital and liquidity models 
and triggers and alerts framework, (xix) the results of stress 
tests, the effect of changes to regulations, and our future 
status, activities or reporting under banking and financial 
regulation, (xx) our expected tax rate, (xxi) the future state 
of our liquidity and regulatory capital ratios, and our 
prospective capital distributions (including dividends and 
repurchases), (xxii) our expected stress capital buffer (SCB) 
and global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge, 
(xxiii) legal proceedings, governmental investigations or 
other contingencies, (xxiv) the asset recovery guarantee and 
our remediation activities related to our 1Malaysia 
Development 
Berhad 
(1MDB) 
settlements, 
(xxv) 
the 
effectiveness of our management of our human capital, (xxvi) 
our sustainability and carbon neutrality targets and goals, 
(xxvii) future inflation, (xxviii) the impact of Russia’s 
invasion of Ukraine and related sanctions and other 
developments on our business, results and financial position, 
(xxix) our ability to sell, and the terms of any proposed sales 
of, Asset & Wealth Management historical principal 
investments, and our ability to transition the General Motors 
(GM) credit card program, (xxx) the impact of the conflicts 
in the Middle East, (xxxi) our ability to manage our 
commercial real estate exposures, (xxxii) the profitability of 
Platform Solutions and (xxxiii) the effectiveness of our 
cybersecurity risk management process. 
Executive Overview 
We generated net earnings of $14.28 billion for 2024, 
compared with $8.52 billion for 2023. Diluted earnings per 
common share (EPS) was $40.54 for 2024, compared with 
$22.87 for 2023. ROE was 12.7% for 2024, compared with 
7.5% for 2023. Book value per common share was $336.77 as 
of December 2024, 7.4% higher compared with December 
2023. 
Net revenues were $53.51 billion for 2024, 16% higher than 
2023, primarily reflecting higher net revenues in Global 
Banking & Markets and Asset & Wealth Management. The 
increase in net revenues in Global Banking & Markets 
primarily reflected higher net revenues in Equities, 
significantly higher Investment banking fees and higher net 
revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities 
(FICC). The increase in net revenues in Asset & Wealth 
Management primarily reflected significantly higher net 
revenues in Equity investments and higher Management and 
other fees. Net revenues in Platform Solutions were slightly 
higher. 
Provision for credit losses was $1.35  billion for 2024, 
compared with $1.03  billion for 2023. Provisions for 2024 
reflected net provisions related to the credit card portfolio 
(primarily driven by net charge-offs). Provisions for 2023 
reflected net provisions related to both the credit card 
portfolio (primarily driven by net charge-offs) and wholesale 
loans (primarily driven by impairments), partially offset by 
reserve reductions related to the transfer of the GreenSky 
loan portfolio to held for sale and the sale of substantially all 
of the Marcus by Goldman Sachs (Marcus) loan portfolio. 
Operating expenses were $33.77 billion for 2024, 2% lower 
than 2023, reflecting decreases driven by significantly lower 
expenses, including impairments, related to commercial real 
estate in consolidated investment entities (CIEs) and other 
significant expenses recognized in the prior year, including 
the write-down of identifiable intangible assets related to 
GreenSky Holdings, LLC (GreenSky), an impairment of 
goodwill related to Consumer platforms and the FDIC 
special assessment fee. These decreases were partially offset 
by higher compensation and benefits expenses (reflecting 
improved operating performance) and higher transaction 
based expenses. Our efficiency ratio (total operating expenses 
divided by total net revenues) was 63.1% for 2024, compared 
with 74.6% for 2023. 
During 2024, we returned a total of $11.80 billion of capital 
to common shareholders, including $8.00 billion of common 
share repurchases and $3.80 billion of common stock 
dividends. As of December 2024, our CET1 capital ratio was 
15.0% under the Standardized Capital Rules and 15.3% 
under the Advanced Capital Rules. See Note 20 to the 
consolidated financial statements for further information 
about our capital ratios.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
63
Business Environment 
In 2024, the global economy grew, but was impacted 
throughout the year by broad macroeconomic and 
geopolitical concerns. Concerns regarding inflation and 
ongoing geopolitical stresses, including tensions with China 
and the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, remained 
elevated. Despite these concerns, the economy in the U.S. has 
remained resilient and equity markets have reacted favorably 
to the outcomes of national elections. Additionally, markets 
were focused on policy interest rate cuts by several central 
banks, including the first rate cut by U.S. Federal Reserve 
since it began increasing the rate in 2022.
There remains uncertainty and concerns about geopolitical 
risks, central bank policy and inflation. See “Results of 
Operations — Segment Assets and Operating Results — 
Segment Operating Results” for further information about 
the operating environment for each of our business segments.
Critical Accounting Policies 
Fair Value 
Fair Value Hierarchy. Trading assets and liabilities, certain 
investments and loans, and certain other financial assets and 
liabilities, are included in our consolidated balance sheets at 
fair value (i.e., marked-to-market), with related gains or 
losses generally recognized in our consolidated statements of 
earnings. The use of fair value to measure financial 
instruments is fundamental to our risk management practices 
and is our most critical accounting policy. 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that 
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability 
in 
an 
orderly 
transaction 
between 
market 
participants at the measurement date. We measure certain 
financial assets and liabilities as a portfolio (i.e., based on its 
net exposure to market and/or credit risks). In determining 
fair value, the hierarchy under U.S. generally accepted 
accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) gives (i) the highest 
priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for 
identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities (level 1 inputs), (ii) 
the next priority to inputs other than level 1 inputs that are 
observable, either directly or indirectly (level 2 inputs), and 
(iii) the lowest priority to inputs that cannot be observed in 
market activity (level 3 inputs). In evaluating the significance 
of a valuation input, we consider, among other factors, a 
portfolio’s net risk exposure to that input. Assets and 
liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest 
level of input that is significant to their fair value 
measurement. 
The fair values for substantially all of our financial assets and 
liabilities are based on observable prices and inputs and are 
classified in levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Certain 
level 2 and level 3 financial assets and liabilities may require 
appropriate valuation adjustments that a market participant 
would require to arrive at fair value for factors, such as 
counterparty and our credit quality, funding risk, transfer 
restrictions, liquidity and bid/offer spreads. 
Instruments classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are 
those which require one or more significant inputs that are 
not observable. Level 3 financial assets represented 1.2% as 
of December 2024 and 1.5% as of December 2023 of our total 
assets. See Notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information about level 3 financial 
assets, including changes in level 3 financial assets and related 
fair value measurements. Absent evidence to the contrary, 
instruments classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are 
initially valued at transaction price, which is considered to be 
the best initial estimate of fair value. Subsequent to the 
transaction date, we use other methodologies to determine 
fair value, which vary based on the type of instrument. 
Estimating the fair value of level 3 financial instruments 
requires judgments to be made. These judgments include: 
• Determining the appropriate valuation methodology and/
or model for each type of level 3 financial instrument; 
• Determining model inputs based on an evaluation of all 
relevant empirical market data, including prices evidenced 
by market transactions, interest rates, credit spreads, 
volatilities and correlations; and 
• Determining appropriate valuation adjustments, including 
those related to illiquidity or counterparty credit quality. 
Regardless of the methodology, valuation inputs and 
assumptions are only changed when corroborated by 
substantive evidence. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
64
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Controls Over Valuation of Financial Instruments. 
Market makers and investment professionals in our revenue-
producing units are responsible for pricing our financial 
instruments. Our control infrastructure is independent of the 
revenue-producing units and is fundamental to ensuring that 
all of our financial instruments are appropriately valued at 
market-clearing levels. In the event that there is a difference 
of opinion in situations where estimating the fair value of 
financial instruments requires judgment (e.g., calibration to 
market comparables or trade comparison, as described 
below), the final valuation decision is made by senior 
managers in our independent price verification function 
within Controllers. This independent price verification is 
critical to ensuring that our financial instruments are 
properly valued. 
Price Verification. All financial instruments at fair value 
classified in levels 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy are 
subject to our independent price verification process. The 
objective of price verification is to have an informed and 
independent opinion with regard to the valuation of financial 
instruments under review. Instruments that have one or more 
significant inputs which cannot be corroborated by external 
market data are classified in level 3 of the fair value 
hierarchy. Price verification strategies utilized by our 
independent price verification function within Controllers 
include: 
• Trade Comparison. Analysis of trade data (both internal 
and external, where available) is used to determine the 
most relevant pricing inputs and valuations. 
• External Price Comparison. Valuations and prices are 
compared to pricing data obtained from third parties (e.g., 
brokers or dealers, S&P Global Services, Bloomberg, ICE 
Data Services, Pricing Direct, TRACE). Data obtained 
from various sources is compared to ensure consistency 
and validity. When broker or dealer quotations or third-
party pricing vendors are used for valuation or price 
verification, greater priority is generally given to executable 
quotations. 
• Calibration to Market Comparables. Market-based 
transactions are used to corroborate the valuation of 
positions 
with 
similar 
characteristics, 
risks 
and 
components. 
• Relative Value Analyses. Market-based transactions are 
analyzed to determine the similarity, measured in terms of 
risk, liquidity and return, of one instrument relative to 
another or, for a given instrument, of one maturity relative 
to another. 
• Collateral Analyses. Margin calls on derivatives are 
analyzed to determine implied values, which are used to 
corroborate our valuations. 
• Execution of Trades. Where appropriate, market-making 
desks are instructed to execute trades in order to provide 
evidence of market-clearing levels. 
• Backtesting. Valuations are corroborated by comparison 
to values realized upon sales. 
See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about fair value measurements. 
Review of Net Revenues. We seek to ensure adherence to 
our pricing policy through a combination of daily 
procedures, including the explanation and attribution of net 
revenues based on the underlying factors. Through this 
process, we independently validate net revenues, identify and 
resolve potential fair value or trade booking issues on a 
timely basis and seek to ensure that risks are being properly 
categorized and quantified. 
Review of Valuation Models. Our independent model risk 
management group (Model Risk), consisting of quantitative 
professionals who are separate from model developers, 
performs an independent model review and validation 
process of our valuation models. New or changed models are 
reviewed and approved prior to implementation. Models are 
reviewed annually to assess the impact of any changes in the 
product or market and any market developments in pricing 
theories. 
See 
“Risk 
Management 
— 
Model 
Risk 
Management” for further information about the review and 
validation of our valuation models.  
Allowance for Credit Losses 
We estimate and record an allowance for credit losses related 
to our loans held for investment that are accounted for at 
amortized cost. To determine the allowance for credit losses, 
we classify our loans accounted for at amortized cost into 
wholesale and consumer portfolios. These portfolios 
represent the level at which we have developed and 
documented our methodology to determine the allowance for 
credit losses. The allowance for credit losses is measured on a 
collective basis for loans that exhibit similar risk 
characteristics using a modeled approach and on an asset-
specific basis for loans that do not share similar risk 
characteristics. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
65
The allowance for credit losses takes into account the 
weighted average of a range of forecasts of future economic 
conditions over the expected life of the loans and lending 
commitments. The expected life of each loan or lending 
commitment is determined based on the contractual term 
adjusted for extension options or demand features, or is 
modeled in the case of revolving credit card loans. The 
forecasts include baseline, favorable and adverse economic 
scenarios over a three-year period. For loans with expected 
lives beyond three years, the model reverts to historical loss 
information based on a non-linear modeled approach. We 
apply judgment in weighting individual scenarios each 
quarter based on a variety of factors, including our internally 
derived economic outlook, market consensus, recent 
macroeconomic conditions and industry trends. The 
forecasted economic scenarios consider a number of risk 
factors relevant to the wholesale and consumer portfolios. 
Risk factors for wholesale loans include internal credit 
ratings, industry default and loss data, expected life, 
macroeconomic indicators (e.g., unemployment rates and 
GDP), the borrower’s capacity to meet its financial 
obligations, the borrower’s country of risk and industry, loan 
seniority and collateral type. In addition, for loans backed by 
real estate, risk factors include the loan-to-value ratio, debt 
service ratio and home price index. The allowance for loan 
losses for wholesale loans that do not share similar risk 
characteristics, such as nonaccrual loans, is calculated using 
the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at 
the loan’s effective rate, the observable market price of the 
loan, or, in the case of collateral dependent loans, the fair 
value of the collateral less estimated costs to sell, if 
applicable. Risk factors for installment and credit card loans 
include Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) credit scores, 
delinquency status, loan vintage and macroeconomic 
indicators. 
The allowance for credit losses also includes qualitative 
components which allow management to reflect the uncertain 
nature 
of 
economic 
forecasting, 
capture 
uncertainty 
regarding model inputs, and account for model imprecision 
and concentration risk. The qualitative factors considered by 
management include, among others, changes and trends in 
loan 
portfolios, 
uncertainties 
associated 
with 
the 
macroeconomic 
and 
geopolitical 
environments, 
credit 
concentrations, changes in volume and severity of past due 
and criticized loans, idiosyncratic events and deterioration 
within an industry or region. 
Our estimate of credit losses entails judgment about 
collectability at the reporting dates, and there are 
uncertainties inherent in those judgments. The allowance for 
credit losses is subject to a governance process that involves 
senior management within Risk and Controllers. Personnel 
within Risk are responsible for forecasting the economic 
variables that underlie the economic scenarios that are used 
in the modeling of expected credit losses. While we use the 
best information available to determine this estimate, future 
adjustments to the allowance may be necessary based on, 
among other things, changes in the economic environment or 
variances between actual results and the original assumptions 
used. Loans are charged off against the allowance for loan 
losses when deemed to be uncollectible. 
We also record an allowance for credit losses on lending 
commitments which are held for investment that are 
accounted for at amortized cost. Such allowance is 
determined using the same methodology as the allowance for 
loan losses, while also taking into consideration the 
probability of drawdowns or funding, and whether such 
commitments are cancellable by us. 
To 
estimate 
the 
potential 
impact 
of 
an 
adverse 
macroeconomic environment on our allowance for credit 
losses, we, among other things, compared the expected credit 
losses under the weighted average forecast used in the 
calculation of allowance for credit losses as of December 
2024 (which was weighted towards the baseline and adverse 
economic scenarios) to the expected credit losses under a 
100% weighted adverse economic scenario. The adverse 
economic scenario of the forecast model reflects a global 
recession in the first quarter of 2025 through the first quarter 
of 2026, resulting in an economic contraction and rising 
unemployment rates. A 100% weighting to the adverse 
economic scenario would have resulted in an approximate 
$0.9 billion increase in our allowance for credit losses as of 
December 2024. This hypothetical increase does not take into 
consideration any potential adjustments to qualitative 
reserves. The forecasts of macroeconomic conditions are 
inherently uncertain and do not take into account any other 
offsetting or correlated effects. The actual credit loss in an 
adverse macroeconomic environment may differ significantly 
from this estimate. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information about the allowance for 
credit losses.
Use of Estimates 
U.S. GAAP requires us to make certain estimates and 
assumptions. In addition to the estimates we make in 
connection with fair value measurements and the allowance 
for credit losses on loans and lending commitments held for 
investment and accounted for at amortized cost, the use of 
estimates and assumptions is also important in determining 
the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, 
provisions for losses that may arise from litigation and 
regulatory 
proceedings 
(including 
governmental 
investigations), and accounting for income taxes. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
66
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually in the fourth 
quarter or more frequently if events occur or circumstances 
change that indicate an impairment may exist. When 
assessing goodwill for impairment, first, a qualitative 
assessment can be made to determine whether it is more 
likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting 
unit is less than its carrying value. If the results of the 
qualitative assessment are not conclusive, a quantitative 
goodwill test is performed. Alternatively, a quantitative 
goodwill test can be performed without performing a 
qualitative assessment. Estimating the fair value of our 
reporting units requires judgment. Critical inputs to the fair 
value estimates include projected earnings, allocated equity, 
price-to-earnings multiples and price-to-book multiples. 
There is inherent uncertainty in the projected earnings. The 
carrying value of each reporting unit reflects an allocation of 
total shareholders’ equity and represents the estimated 
amount of total shareholders’ equity required to support the 
activities of the reporting unit under currently applicable 
regulatory capital requirements. During the third quarter of 
2024, in connection with the planned sale of our seller 
financing loan portfolio, we performed a quantitative 
goodwill test and determined that the goodwill associated 
with Transaction banking and other was impaired, and 
accordingly, recorded a $14 million impairment. In the fourth 
quarter of 2024, we performed our annual assessment of 
goodwill for impairment, for each of our reporting units with 
goodwill, by performing a qualitative assessment. As a result 
of the annual assessment, we determined that it was more 
likely than not that the estimated fair value of each reporting 
unit with goodwill exceeded its respective carrying value. 
Therefore, we determined that goodwill for each reporting 
unit was not impaired and that a quantitative goodwill test 
was not required. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information about our annual 
assessment of goodwill for impairment. If we experience a 
prolonged or severe period of weakness in the business 
environment, financial markets, the performance of one or 
more of our reporting units or our common stock price, or 
additional increases in capital requirements, our goodwill 
could be impaired in the future. 
Identifiable intangible assets are tested for impairment when 
events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset’s or 
asset group’s carrying value may not be fully recoverable. 
Judgment is required to evaluate whether indications of 
potential impairment have occurred, and to test identifiable 
intangible assets for impairment, if required. An impairment 
is recognized if the estimated undiscounted cash flows 
relating to the asset or asset group is less than the 
corresponding carrying value. During 2024, in connection 
with the planned transition of the GM credit card program to 
another issuer, we classified the GM credit card program to 
held for sale and recognized a $72 million write-down of 
identifiable intangible assets. See Note 12 to the consolidated 
financial 
statements 
for 
further 
information 
about 
identifiable intangible assets.
We also estimate and provide for potential losses that may 
arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the 
extent that such losses are probable and can be reasonably 
estimated. In addition, we estimate the upper end of the 
range of reasonably possible aggregate loss in excess of the 
related reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings 
where we believe the risk of loss is more than slight. See 
Notes 18 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements for 
information about certain judicial, litigation and regulatory 
proceedings. Significant judgment is required in making these 
estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be 
materially different. Our total estimated liability in respect of 
litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case-
by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses 
after considering, among other factors, the progress of each 
case, proceeding or investigation, our experience and the 
experience of others in similar cases, proceedings or 
investigations, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. 
In accounting for income taxes, we recognize tax positions in 
the financial statements only when it is more likely than not 
that the position will be sustained on examination by the 
relevant taxing authority based on the technical merits of the 
position. As of December 2024, our liability for unrecognized 
tax benefits was $2.16 billion. We use estimates to recognize 
current and deferred income taxes in the U.S. federal, state 
and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. 
The income tax laws in these jurisdictions are complex and 
can be subject to different interpretations between taxpayers 
and taxing authorities. Disputes may arise over these 
interpretations and can be settled by audit, administrative 
appeals or judicial proceedings. We do not expect that the 
resolution of any such dispute will have a material impact on 
our financial condition, but it may be material to the 
operating results for a particular period, depending, in part, 
on the operating results for that period. Our interpretations 
are reevaluated quarterly based on guidance currently 
available, tax examination experience and the opinions of 
legal counsel, among other factors. We recognize deferred 
taxes based on the amount that will more likely than not be 
realized in the future based on enacted income tax laws. As of 
December 2024, we had $11.01 billion of deferred tax assets 
with a related valuation allowance of $2.06 billion. Our 
estimate for deferred taxes includes estimates for future 
taxable earnings, including the level and character of those 
earnings, and various tax planning strategies. See Note 24 to 
the consolidated financial statements for further information 
about income taxes. 
Recent Accounting Developments 
See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for 
information about Recent Accounting Developments. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
67
Results of Operations 
The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as 
financial markets and the scope of our operations have 
changed. The composition of net revenues can also vary over 
the shorter term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global 
economic and market conditions. See “Risk Factors” in Part 
I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information about 
the impact of economic and market conditions on our results 
of operations. For a discussion of our 2023 financial results 
compared with 2022, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
year ended December 31, 2023.
Financial Overview 
The table below presents an overview of our financial results 
and selected financial ratios. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions, except per share amounts
2024
2023
2022
Net revenues
$ 53,512 $ 46,254 
$ 47,365 
Pre-tax earnings
$ 18,397 $ 10,739 
$ 13,486 
Net earnings
$ 14,276 $ 8,516 
$ 11,261 
Net earnings to common
$ 13,525 $ 7,907 
$ 10,764 
Diluted EPS
$ 40.54 $ 22.87 
$ 30.06 
ROE
 12.7% 
 7.5% 
 10.2% 
ROTE
 13.5% 
 8.1% 
 11.0% 
Net earnings to average assets
 0.9% 
 0.5% 
 0.7% 
Return on shareholders’ equity
 12.0% 
 7.3% 
 9.7% 
Average equity to average assets
 7.1% 
 7.5% 
 7.5% 
Dividend payout ratio
 28.4% 
 45.9% 
 29.9% 
Our target (through-the-cycle) is to achieve ROE within a 
range of 14% to 16% and ROTE within a range of 15% to 
17%.
In the table above: 
• Net earnings to common represents net earnings applicable 
to common shareholders, which is calculated as net 
earnings less preferred stock dividends. 
• ROE is calculated by dividing net earnings to common by 
average monthly common shareholders’ equity. 
• ROTE is calculated by dividing net earnings to common by 
average monthly tangible common shareholders’ equity. 
Tangible common shareholders’ equity is calculated as 
total shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill 
and identifiable intangible assets. We believe that tangible 
common shareholders’ equity is meaningful because it is a 
measure that we and investors use to assess capital 
adequacy and that ROTE is meaningful because it 
measures the performance of businesses consistently, 
whether they were acquired or developed internally. 
Tangible common shareholders’ equity and ROTE are 
non-GAAP measures and may not be comparable to similar 
non-GAAP measures used by other companies. 
The table below presents our average equity and the 
reconciliation of average common shareholders’ equity to 
average tangible common shareholders’ equity.
 
Average for the Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Total shareholders’ equity
$ 119,204 $ 116,699 
$ 115,990 
Preferred stock
 
(12,430)  (10,895)  (10,703) 
Common shareholders’ equity
 
106,774  105,804 
 105,287 
Goodwill
 
(5,895)  
(6,147)  
(5,726) 
Identifiable intangible assets
 
(1,003)  
(1,736)  
(1,583) 
Tangible common shareholders’ equity
$ 
99,876 $ 97,921 
$ 97,978 
• Net earnings to average assets is calculated by dividing net 
earnings by average total assets. 
• Return on shareholders’ equity is calculated by dividing net 
earnings by average monthly shareholders’ equity. 
• Average equity to average assets is calculated by dividing 
average total shareholders’ equity by average total assets. 
• Dividend payout ratio is calculated by dividing dividends 
declared per common share by diluted EPS. 
Net Revenues 
The table below presents our net revenues by line item. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Investment banking
$ 
7,738 $ 
6,218 
$ 
7,360 
Investment management
 
10,596  
9,532 
 
9,005 
Commissions and fees
 
4,086  
3,789 
 
4,034 
Market making
 
18,390  
18,238 
 
18,634 
Other principal transactions
 
4,646  
2,126 
 
654 
Total non-interest revenues
 
45,456  
39,903 
 
39,687 
Interest income
 
81,397  
68,515 
 
29,024 
Interest expense
 
73,341  
62,164 
 
21,346 
Net interest income
 
8,056  
6,351 
 
7,678 
Total net revenues
$ 53,512 $ 46,254 
$ 47,365 
In the table above: 
• Investment banking consists of revenues (excluding net 
interest) from financial advisory and underwriting 
assignments. These activities are included in Global 
Banking & Markets. 
• Investment management consists of revenues (excluding net 
interest) from providing asset management and wealth 
advisory services across all major asset classes to a diverse 
set of clients. These activities are included in Asset & 
Wealth Management.
• Commissions and fees consists of revenues from executing 
and clearing client transactions on major stock, options 
and futures exchanges worldwide, as well as over-the-
counter (OTC) transactions. Substantially all of these 
activities are included in Global Banking & Markets. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
68
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Market making consists of revenues (excluding net interest) 
from client execution activities related to making markets 
in interest rate products, credit products, mortgages, 
currencies, commodities and equity products. These 
activities are included in Global Banking & Markets. 
• Other 
principal 
transactions 
consists 
of 
revenues 
(excluding net interest) from our equity investing activities, 
including revenues related to our consolidated investments 
(included in Asset & Wealth Management), and debt 
investing and lending activities (included across our three 
segments). 
Operating Environment. During 2024, the operating 
environment was generally characterized by continued broad 
macroeconomic concerns, including concerns and uncertainty 
about inflation, ongoing geopolitical tensions, central bank 
policy and the potential outcome of national elections. In 
investment banking, industry-wide underwriting volumes 
increased compared with 2023, driven by strong levels of debt 
offerings and improved levels of equity offerings, while 
industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions volumes 
remained below historical averages. In market making, 
activity levels were mixed, as activity levels in fixed income-
related products decreased compared with the prior year, 
while activity levels in equity-related products increased. 
Global equity prices were generally higher compared with the 
end of 2023, and concerns about the commercial real estate 
market persisted. In the U.S., the rate of unemployment 
remained low and the pace of growth in consumer spending 
increased slightly compared with 2023. 
If uncertainty and concerns about geopolitical tensions and 
the economic outlook remain elevated or grow, including 
those about central bank policy, inflation and the commercial 
real estate sector, it may lead to a decline in asset prices, a 
decline in market-making activity levels, a decline in 
industry-wide investment banking volumes, and net revenues 
and provision for credit losses would likely be negatively 
impacted. See “Segment Assets and Operating Results — 
Segment Operating Results” for information about the 
operating environment and material trends and uncertainties 
that may impact our results of operations. 
2024 versus 2023
Net revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were 
$53.51 billion for 2024, 16% higher than 2023, primarily 
reflecting significantly higher other principal transactions 
revenues, net interest income and investment banking 
revenues and higher investment management revenues. 
Non-Interest Revenues. Investment banking revenues in 
the consolidated statements of earnings were $7.74 billion for 
2024, 24% higher than 2023, primarily reflecting significantly 
higher revenues in debt underwriting, primarily driven by 
leveraged finance activity, and in equity underwriting, 
primarily driven by secondary and initial public offerings. In 
addition, revenues in advisory were higher, reflecting an 
increase in completed mergers and acquisitions transactions. 
Investment management revenues in the consolidated 
statements of earnings were $10.60 billion for 2024, 11% 
higher than 2023, primarily due to higher management and 
other fees, primarily reflecting the impact of higher average 
assets under supervision (AUS). 
Commissions and fees in the consolidated statements of 
earnings were $4.09 billion for 2024, 8% higher than 2023, 
due to higher commissions and fees in Equities, reflecting 
generally higher market volumes and increased transaction 
fees, partially offset by a loss related to the planned transition 
of the GM credit card program to another issuer.  
Market making revenues in the consolidated statements of 
earnings were $18.39 billion for 2024, essentially unchanged 
compared with 2023. Market making revenues from 
intermediation activities were slightly higher, primarily 
reflecting significantly higher revenues in equity cash 
products, currencies and mortgages, offset by significantly 
lower revenues in commodities and equity derivatives. 
Market making revenues from financing activities were 
essentially unchanged, reflecting significantly lower revenues 
in FICC financing, offset by significantly higher revenues 
from Equities financing. 
Other principal transactions revenues in the consolidated 
statements of earnings were $4.65 billion for 2024, 119% 
higher than 2023, primarily reflecting significantly higher net 
gains from investments in private equities, significantly 
higher net gains from derivatives related to our funding 
activities, the impact of the sale of the Marcus loan portfolio 
in 2023 (including net revenues of approximately $(370) 
million related to the sale of substantially all of the portfolio) 
and significantly lower net losses on hedges related to our 
relationship lending portfolio. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
69
Net Interest Income. Net interest income in the 
consolidated statements of earnings was $8.06 billion for 
2024, 27% higher than 2023, reflecting an increase in interest 
income, partially offset by an increase in interest expense. 
The increase in interest income primarily related to trading 
assets and investments (each reflecting the impact of higher 
average balances and higher average interest rates), 
collateralized agreements and other interest-earning assets 
(each reflecting the impact of higher average interest rates), 
partially offset by a decrease in interest income related to 
deposits with banks (reflecting the impact of lower average 
balances). The increase in interest expense primarily related 
to collateralized financings and deposits (each reflecting the 
impact of higher average balances and higher average interest 
rates) and other interest-bearing liabilities (reflecting the 
impact of higher average interest rates). See “Supplemental 
Financial 
Information 
— 
Statistical 
Disclosures 
— 
Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity” 
for further information about our sources of net interest 
income.
Provision for Credit Losses 
Provision for credit losses consists of provision for credit 
losses on financial assets and commitments accounted for at 
amortized cost, including loans and lending commitments 
held for investment. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information about the provision for 
credit losses on loans and lending commitments. 
The table below presents our provision for credit losses. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Provision for credit losses
$ 
1,348 $ 
1,028 
$ 2,715 
2024 versus 2023. Provision for credit losses in the 
consolidated statements of earnings was $1.35 billion for 
2024, compared with $1.03 billion for 2023. Provisions for 
2024 reflected net provisions related to the credit card 
portfolio (primarily driven by net charge-offs). Provisions for 
2023 reflected net provisions related to both the credit card 
portfolio (primarily driven by net charge-offs) and wholesale 
loans (primarily driven by impairments), partially offset by 
reserve reductions of $637 million related to the transfer of 
the GreenSky loan portfolio to held for sale and $442 million 
related to the sale of substantially all of the Marcus loan 
portfolio. 
Operating Expenses 
Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by 
compensation, headcount and levels of business activity. 
Compensation and benefits includes salaries, year-end 
discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards 
and other items such as benefits. Discretionary compensation 
is significantly impacted by, among other factors, the level of 
net revenues, net of provision for credit losses, overall 
financial performance, prevailing labor markets, business 
mix, the structure of our share-based awards and the external 
environment. 
The table below presents our operating expenses by line item 
and headcount. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Compensation and benefits
$ 16,706 $ 15,499 
$ 15,148 
Transaction based
 
6,724  
5,698 
 
5,312 
Market development
 
646  
629 
 
812 
Communications and technology
 
1,991  
1,919 
 
1,808 
Depreciation and amortization
 
2,392  
4,856 
 
2,455 
Occupancy
 
973  
1,053 
 
1,026 
Professional fees
 
1,652  
1,623 
 
1,887 
Other expenses
 
2,683  
3,210 
 
2,716 
Total operating expenses
$ 33,767 $ 34,487 
$ 31,164 
Headcount at period-end
46,500
45,300
48,500
2024 versus 2023. Operating expenses in the consolidated 
statements of earnings were $33.77 billion for 2024, 2% lower 
than 2023. Our efficiency ratio was 63.1% for 2024, 
compared with 74.6% for 2023. 
Operating expenses, compared with 2023, reflected decreases 
driven by significantly lower expenses, including impairments 
($1.46 billion recognized in 2023), related to commercial real 
estate in CIEs (largely in depreciation and amortization) and 
other significant expenses recognized in the prior year, 
including the write-down of identifiable intangible assets 
related to GreenSky of $506 million and an impairment of 
goodwill related to Consumer platforms of $504 million 
(both in depreciation and amortization), and the FDIC 
special assessment fee of $529 million (in other expenses). 
These decreases were partially offset by higher compensation 
and benefits expenses (reflecting improved operating 
performance) and higher transaction based expenses. An 
incremental expense for the FDIC special assessment fee of 
$71 million was recognized in 2024, as the FDIC notified 
banks subject to the special assessment fee of the updated 
estimated cost to the Deposit Insurance Fund resulting from 
the closures in 2023 of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature 
Bank. 
Net 
provisions 
for 
litigation 
and 
regulatory 
proceedings were $166 million for 2024 compared with $115 
million for 2023.
As of December 2024, headcount increased 3% compared 
with December 2023, primarily due to increases in Asset & 
Wealth Management, Risk and Compliance, partially offset 
by the impact of the sale of GreenSky. 
Provision for Taxes 
The effective income tax rate for 2024 was 22.4%, up from 
the full year income tax rate of 20.7% for 2023, primarily due 
to a decrease in the impact of permanent tax benefits for 2024 
compared with 2023, partially offset by changes in the 
geographic mix of earnings. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
70
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The 
Organisation 
for 
Economic 
Co-operation 
and 
Development (OECD) Global Anti-Base Erosion Model 
Rules (Pillar II) aim to ensure that multinationals with 
revenues in excess of EUR 750 million pay a minimum 
effective corporate tax rate of 15% (minimum tax) in each 
jurisdiction in which they operate. The U.K. and other 
jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted certain 
portions of the OECD directive (Pillar II legislation) effective 
beginning in calendar year 2024. The Pillar II legislation did 
not have a material impact on our effective tax rate for 2024. 
We expect additional guidance or legislation to be issued by 
the OECD and various jurisdictions during 2025 which could 
impact any minimum tax we owe in future periods, possibly 
materially, and our effective tax rate could increase in 2025 
and thereafter. This minimum tax, if any, will be recognized 
in the period in which it is incurred. 
On August 26, 2024, the U.S. Tax Court issued a decision in 
Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Commissioner (Varian 
decision). The Varian decision reduced the U.S. tax on the 
deemed repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings of 
applicable non-U.S. subsidiaries in the transition year of the 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. We are monitoring the Varian 
decision and evaluating its impact, which could be a material 
income tax benefit, on the deemed repatriation tax we 
incurred for the 2018 tax year. No income tax benefit has 
been recognized in the provision for income taxes as a result 
of the Varian decision as of December 2024.
We expect our 2025 annual effective tax rate to be 
approximately 21%.
Segment Assets and Operating Results 
Segment Assets. The table below presents assets by 
segment. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Global Banking & Markets
$ 1,420,142 $ 1,381,247 
Asset & Wealth Management
 
193,328  
191,863 
Platform Solutions
 
62,502  
68,484 
Total
$ 1,675,972 $ 1,641,594 
The allocation process for segment assets is based on the 
activities of these segments. The allocation of assets includes 
allocation of GCLA (which consists of unencumbered, highly 
liquid securities and cash), which is included within cash and 
cash equivalents, collateralized agreements, trading assets 
and investments on our balance sheet. Due to the integrated 
nature of these segments, estimates and judgments are made 
in allocating these assets. See “Risk Management — 
Liquidity Risk Management” for further information about 
our GCLA. 
Segment Operating Results. The table below presents our 
segment operating results. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Global Banking & Markets
Net revenues
$ 34,943 $ 29,996 
$ 32,487 
Provision for credit losses
 
40 
 
401 
 
468 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
9,426  
8,571 
 
8,661 
Other operating expenses
 
10,554  
9,469 
 
9,190 
Total operating expenses
 
19,980  
18,040 
 
17,851 
Pre-tax earnings
$ 14,923 $ 11,555 
$ 14,168 
Net earnings to common
$ 10,998 $ 
8,703 
$ 11,458 
Average common equity
$ 75,796 $ 71,863 
$ 69,951 
Return on average common equity
 14.5% 
 12.1% 
 16.4% 
Asset & Wealth Management
Net revenues
$ 16,142 $ 13,880 
$ 13,376 
Provision for credit losses
 
(232)  
(508)  
519 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
6,595  
6,144 
 
5,927 
Other operating expenses
 
5,230  
6,885 
 
5,623 
Total operating expenses
 
11,825  
13,029 
 
11,550 
Pre-tax earnings
$ 
4,549 $ 
1,359 
$ 
1,307 
Net earnings to common
$ 
3,386 $ 
952 
$ 
979 
Average common equity
$ 26,405 $ 30,078 
$ 31,762 
Return on average common equity
 12.8% 
 3.2% 
 3.1% 
Platform Solutions
Net revenues
$ 
2,427 $ 
2,378 
$ 
1,502 
Provision for credit losses
 
1,540  
1,135 
 
1,728 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
685  
784 
 
560 
Other operating expenses
 
1,277  
2,634 
 
1,203 
Total operating expenses
 
1,962  
3,418 
 
1,763 
Pre-tax earnings/(loss)
$ (1,075) $ (2,175) $ (1,989) 
Net earnings/(loss) to common
$ 
(859) $ (1,748) $ (1,673) 
Average common equity
$ 
4,573 $ 
3,863 
$ 
3,574 
Return on average common equity
 (18.8) %
 (45.2) %
 (46.8) %
Total
Net revenues
$ 53,512 $ 46,254 
$ 47,365 
Provision for credit losses
 
1,348  
1,028 
 
2,715 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
16,706  
15,499 
 
15,148 
Other operating expenses
 
17,061  
18,988 
 
16,016 
Total operating expenses
 
33,767  
34,487 
 
31,164 
Pre-tax earnings
$ 18,397 $ 10,739 
$ 13,486 
Net earnings to common
$ 13,525 $ 
7,907 
$ 10,764 
Average common equity
$ 106,774 $ 105,804 
$ 105,287 
Return on average common equity
 12.7% 
 7.5% 
 10.2% 
Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest 
income and expense based on the funding generated by, or 
the funding and liquidity requirements of, the respective 
segments. See Note 25 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information about our business 
segments. 
The allocation of common shareholders’ equity and preferred 
stock dividends to each segment is based on the estimated 
amount of equity required to support the activities of the 
segment under relevant regulatory capital requirements. Net 
earnings for each segment is calculated by applying the 
firmwide tax rate to each segment’s pre-tax earnings. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
71
Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments 
reflect, among other factors, our overall performance, as well 
as the performance of individual businesses. Consequently, 
pre-tax margins in one segment of our business may be 
significantly affected by the performance of our other 
business segments. A description of segment operating results 
follows. 
Global Banking & Markets
Global Banking & Markets generates revenues from the 
following: 
Investment banking fees. We provide advisory and 
underwriting services and help companies raise capital to 
strengthen and grow their businesses. Investment banking 
fees includes the following:
• Advisory. Includes strategic advisory assignments with 
respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate 
defense activities, restructurings and spin-offs. 
• Underwriting. Includes public offerings and private 
placements in both local and cross-border transactions of a 
wide range of securities and other financial instruments, 
including acquisition financing. 
FICC. FICC generates revenues from intermediation and 
financing activities. 
• FICC intermediation. Includes client execution activities 
related to making markets in both cash and derivative 
instruments, as detailed below. 
Interest Rate Products. Government bonds (including 
inflation-linked 
securities) 
across 
maturities, 
other 
government-backed securities, and interest rate swaps, 
options and other derivatives. 
Credit 
Products. 
Investment-grade 
and 
high-yield 
corporate securities, credit derivatives, exchange-traded 
funds (ETFs), bank and bridge loans, municipal securities, 
distressed debt and trade claims. 
Mortgages. Commercial mortgage-related securities, 
loans 
and 
derivatives, 
residential 
mortgage-related 
securities, loans and derivatives (including U.S. government 
agency-issued collateralized mortgage obligations and 
other securities and loans), and other asset-backed 
securities, loans and derivatives. 
Currencies. Currency options, spot/forwards and other 
derivatives on G-10 currencies and emerging-market 
products. 
Commodities. Commodity derivatives and, to a lesser 
extent, physical commodities, involving crude oil and 
petroleum products, natural gas, agricultural, base, 
precious and other metals, electricity, including renewable 
power, environmental products and other commodity 
products. 
• FICC financing. Includes (i) secured lending to our clients 
through structured credit and asset-backed lending, 
including warehouse loans backed by mortgages (including 
residential and commercial mortgage loans), corporate 
loans and consumer loans (including auto loans and private 
student loans), (ii) financing through securities purchased 
under agreements to resell (resale agreements) and (iii) 
commodity financing to clients through structured 
transactions. 
Equities. Equities generates revenues from intermediation 
and financing activities. 
• Equities intermediation. We make markets in equity 
securities and equity-related products, including ETFs, 
convertible securities, options, futures and OTC derivative 
instruments. We also structure and make markets in 
derivatives on indices, industry sectors, financial measures 
and individual company stocks. Our exchange-based 
market-making activities include making markets in stocks 
and ETFs, futures and options on major exchanges 
worldwide. In addition, we generate commissions and fees 
from executing and clearing institutional client transactions 
on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, 
as well as OTC transactions.
• Equities financing. Includes prime financing, which 
provides financing to our clients for their securities trading 
activities through margin loans that are generally 
collateralized by securities or cash. Prime financing also 
includes services which involve lending securities to cover 
institutional clients’ short sales and borrowing securities to 
cover our short sales and to make deliveries into the 
market. We are also an active participant in broker-to-
broker securities lending and third-party agency lending 
activities. In addition, we execute swap transactions to 
provide our clients with exposure to securities and indices. 
Financing activities also include portfolio financing, which 
clients can utilize to manage their investment portfolios, 
and other equity financing activities, including securities-
based loans to individuals.
Market-Making Activities
As a market maker, we facilitate transactions in both liquid 
and less liquid markets, primarily for institutional clients, 
such as corporations, financial institutions, investment funds 
and governments, to assist clients in meeting their investment 
objectives and in managing their risks. In this role, we seek to 
earn the difference between the price at which a market 
participant is willing to sell an instrument to us and the price 
at which another market participant is willing to buy it from 
us, and vice versa (i.e., bid/offer spread). In addition, we 
maintain (i) market-making positions, typically for a short 
period of time, in response to, or in anticipation of, client 
demand, and (ii) positions to actively manage our risk 
exposures that arise from these market-making activities 
(collectively, inventory). Our inventory is recorded in trading 
assets (long positions) or trading liabilities (short positions) 
in our consolidated balance sheets. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
72
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Our 
results 
are 
influenced 
by 
a 
combination 
of 
interconnected drivers, including (i) client activity levels and 
transactional bid/offer spreads (collectively, client activity), 
and (ii) changes in the fair value of our inventory and interest 
income and interest expense related to the holding, hedging 
and funding of our inventory (collectively, market-making 
inventory changes). Due to the integrated nature of our 
market-making activities, disaggregation of net revenues into 
client activity and market-making inventory changes is 
judgmental and has inherent complexities and limitations. 
The amount and composition of our net revenues vary over 
time as these drivers are impacted by multiple interrelated 
factors affecting economic and market conditions, including 
volatility and liquidity in the market, changes in interest 
rates, currency exchange rates, credit spreads, equity prices 
and commodity prices, investor confidence, and other 
macroeconomic concerns and uncertainties. 
In general, assuming all other market-making conditions 
remain constant, increases in client activity levels or bid/offer 
spreads tend to result in increases in net revenues, and 
decreases tend to have the opposite effect. However, changes 
in market-making conditions can materially impact client 
activity levels and bid/offer spreads, as well as the fair value 
of our inventory. For example, a decrease in liquidity in the 
market could have the impact of (i) increasing our bid/offer 
spread, (ii) decreasing investor confidence and thereby 
decreasing client activity levels, and (iii) widening of credit 
spreads on our inventory positions. 
Other. We lend to corporate clients, including through 
relationship lending and acquisition financing. The hedges 
related to this lending and financing activity are also reported 
as part of Other. Other also includes equity and debt 
investing activities related to our Global Banking & Markets 
activities.
The table below presents our Global Banking & Markets 
assets. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 129,687 $ 
168,857 
Collateralized agreements
 
356,637  
401,554 
Customer and other receivables
 
113,646  
117,633 
Trading assets
 
508,379  
435,275 
Investments
 
161,381  
122,350 
Loans
 
130,670  
117,464 
Other assets
 
19,742  
18,114 
Total
$ 1,420,142 $ 1,381,247 
The table below presents details about our Global Banking & 
Markets loans. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate
$ 
22,595 $ 
24,159 
Real estate
 
37,705  
34,813 
Securities-based
 
4,279  
3,758 
Other collateralized
 
67,080  
55,527 
Installment
 
70  
173 
Other
 
128  
475 
Loans, gross
 
131,857  
118,905 
Allowance for loan losses
 
(1,187)  
(1,441) 
Total loans
$ 130,670 $ 
117,464 
Our average Global Banking & Markets gross loans were 
$126.87 billion for 2024 and $112.07 billion for 2023.
The table below presents our Global Banking & Markets 
operating results. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Advisory
$ 3,534 $ 3,299 
$ 4,704 
Equity underwriting
 
1,677  1,153 
 
848 
Debt underwriting
 
2,521  1,764 
 1,808 
Investment banking fees
 
7,732  6,216 
 7,360 
FICC intermediation
 
9,564  9,318 
 11,890 
FICC financing
 
3,640  2,742 
 2,786 
FICC
 13,204  12,060 
 14,676 
Equities intermediation
 
7,937  6,489 
 6,662 
Equities financing
 
5,494  5,060 
 4,326 
Equities
 13,431  11,549 
 10,988 
Other
 
576  
171 
 
(537) 
Total net revenues
 34,943  29,996 
 32,487 
Provision for credit losses
 
40  
401 
 
468 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
9,426  8,571 
 8,661 
Other operating expenses
 10,554  9,469 
 9,190 
Total operating expenses
 19,980  18,040 
 17,851 
Pre-tax earnings
 14,923  11,555 
 14,168 
Provision for taxes
 
3,343  2,392 
 2,338 
Net earnings
 11,580  9,163 
 11,830 
Preferred stock dividends
 
582  
460 
 
372 
Net earnings to common
$ 10,998 $ 8,703 
$ 11,458 
Average common equity
$ 75,796 $ 71,863 
$ 69,951 
Return on average common equity
 14.5% 
 12.1% 
 16.4% 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
73
The table below presents our FICC and Equities net revenues 
by line item in the consolidated statements of earnings. 
$ in millions
FICC
Equities
Year Ended December 2024
Market making
$ 9,020 $ 9,370 
Commissions and fees
 
–  
4,289 
Other principal transactions
 
1,203  
68 
Net interest income
 
2,981  
(296) 
Total
$ 13,204 $ 13,431 
Year Ended December 2023
Market making
$ 10,632 $ 7,606 
Commissions and fees
 
–  
3,736 
Other principal transactions
 
656  
81 
Net interest income
 
772  
126 
Total
$ 12,060 $ 11,549 
Year Ended December 2022
Market making
$ 12,422 $ 6,212 
Commissions and fees
 
–  
3,791 
Other principal transactions
 
377  
41 
Net interest income
 
1,877  
944 
Total
$ 14,676 $ 10,988 
In the table above: 
• See “Net Revenues” for information about market making 
revenues, 
commissions 
and 
fees, 
other 
principal 
transactions revenues and net interest income. See Note 25 
to the consolidated financial statements for net interest 
income by segment. 
• The 
primary 
driver 
of 
net 
revenues 
for 
FICC 
intermediation for all periods was client activity. 
• The increase in net interest income within FICC for 2024 
compared with 2023 reflected an increase in interest-
earning assets. Due to the nature of activities within FICC 
and Equities and the composition of their associated 
balance sheet, we assess the performance of these 
businesses based on total net revenues, as offsets can occur 
across revenue line items. For example, cash instruments 
that generate interest income are, in some cases, hedged or 
funded by derivatives for which changes in fair value are 
reflected in market making revenues. Also, certain activities 
produce market making revenues but incur interest expense 
related to the funding of the related inventory.
The table below presents our financial advisory and 
underwriting transaction volumes. 
Year Ended December
$ in billions
2024
2023
2022
Announced mergers and acquisitions
$ 1,037 $ 
933 
$ 1,173 
Completed mergers and acquisitions
$ 
901 $ 1,012 
$ 1,356 
Equity and equity-related offerings
$ 
57 $ 
43 
$ 
33 
Debt offerings
$ 
295 $ 
209 
$ 223 
In the table above:
• Volumes are per Dealogic. 
• Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions 
volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a 
transaction. Equity and equity-related and debt offerings 
are based on full credit for single book managers and equal 
credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may 
not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In 
addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary 
from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent 
withdrawal or a change in the value of a transaction. 
• Equity and equity-related offerings includes Rule 144A and 
public common stock offerings, convertible offerings and 
rights offerings. 
• Debt offerings includes non-convertible preferred stock, 
mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and 
taxable municipal debt. It also includes publicly registered 
and Rule 144A issues and excludes leveraged loans.
In January 2025, we formed the Capital Solutions Group in 
Global Banking & Markets, which provides a more 
comprehensive suite of our financing, origination, structuring 
and risk management offerings across both public and private 
markets. This group includes the current capabilities of our 
financing group and expands its coverage to financial 
sponsors and alternative asset management firms. It also 
includes an alternatives origination group focused on 
sourcing, to provide seamless coverage to our private credit 
and private equity clients. We believe that a more integrated 
set of these capabilities will allow us to better serve our 
clients as these private markets continue to grow.
Operating Environment. During 2024, Global Banking & 
Markets operated in an environment generally characterized 
by continued broad macroeconomic concerns, including 
concerns and uncertainty about inflation, prolonged 
geopolitical stresses and central bank policy, and the 
potential outcomes of the national elections.
In investment banking, industry-wide debt underwriting 
volumes for the year increased significantly compared with 
the prior year, driven by strong levels of leveraged finance 
and investment-grade offerings. However, industry-wide 
equity underwriting volumes, despite improving year-over-
year, and industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions 
volumes remained below historical averages.
In interest rates, the yields on 10-year U.S. and U.K. 
government bonds increased during the year. In equities, the 
S&P 500 Index increased by 23% and the MSCI World Index 
increased by 16% compared with the end of 2023. 
In the future, if market and economic conditions deteriorate, 
and market-making activity levels decline, industry-wide 
investment banking volumes decline, or credit spreads related 
to hedges on our relationship lending portfolio tighten, net 
revenues in Global Banking & Markets would likely be 
negatively impacted. In addition, if economic conditions 
deteriorate or if the creditworthiness of borrowers 
deteriorates, provision for credit losses would likely be 
negatively impacted. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
74
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
2024 versus 2023. Net revenues in Global Banking & 
Markets were $34.94 billion for 2024, 16% higher than 2023. 
Investment banking fees were $7.73 billion, 24% higher than 
2023, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in 
Debt underwriting, primarily driven by leveraged finance 
activity, and in Equity underwriting, primarily driven by 
secondary and initial public offerings. In addition, net 
revenues in Advisory were higher, reflecting an increase in 
completed mergers and acquisitions transactions.  
As of December 2024, our Investment banking fees backlog 
increased compared with the end of 2023, primarily reflecting 
higher estimated net revenues from potential advisory 
transactions. 
Our backlog represents an estimate of our net revenues from 
future transactions where we believe that future revenue 
realization is more likely than not. We believe changes in our 
backlog may be a useful indicator of client activity levels 
which, over the long term, impact our net revenues. 
However, the time frame for completion and corresponding 
revenue recognition of transactions in our backlog varies 
based on the nature of the assignment, as certain transactions 
may remain in our backlog for longer periods of time. In 
addition, our backlog is subject to certain limitations, such as 
assumptions about the likelihood that individual client 
transactions will occur in the future. Transactions may be 
cancelled or modified, and transactions not included in the 
estimate may also occur. 
Net revenues in FICC were $13.20 billion, 9% higher than 
2023, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in 
FICC financing, primarily driven by mortgages and 
structured lending. Net revenues in FICC intermediation 
were slightly higher, driven by significantly higher net 
revenues in currencies, mortgages and credit products, largely 
offset by lower net revenues in interest rate products and 
significantly lower net revenues in commodities.
The increase in FICC intermediation net revenues reflected 
the impact of improved market-making conditions on our 
inventory, partially offset by lower client activity. The 
following 
provides 
information 
about 
our 
FICC 
intermediation net revenues by business, compared with 
results for 2023:
• Net revenues in currencies, mortgages and credit products 
reflected 
the 
impact 
of 
improved 
market-making 
conditions on our inventory.
• Net revenues in interest rate products and commodities 
primarily reflected lower client activity.
Net revenues in Equities were $13.43 billion, 16% higher than 
2023, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Equities 
intermediation, primarily driven by derivatives, and higher 
net revenues in Equities financing, driven by prime financing.
Net revenues in Other were $576 million for 2024, compared 
with $171 million for 2023, with the increase primarily 
reflecting significantly lower net losses on hedges.
Provision for credit losses was $40 million for 2024, 
compared with $401 million for 2023. Provisions for 2023 
primarily reflected net provisions related to the commercial 
real estate portfolio.
Operating expenses were $19.98 billion for 2024, 11% higher 
than 2023, primarily due to significantly higher transaction 
based expenses and higher compensation and benefits 
expenses (reflecting improved operating performance). Pre-
tax earnings were $14.92 billion for 2024, 29% higher than 
2023.
Asset & Wealth Management 
Asset & Wealth Management provides investment services to 
help clients preserve and grow their financial assets and 
achieve their financial goals. We provide these services to our 
clients, both institutional and individuals, including investors 
who primarily access our products through a network of 
third-party distributors around the world.
We manage client assets across a broad range of investment 
strategies and asset classes, including equity, fixed income 
and 
alternative 
investments. 
We 
provide 
investment 
solutions, including those managed on a fiduciary basis by 
our portfolio managers, as well as those managed by third-
party managers. We offer our investment solutions in a 
variety of structures, including separately managed accounts, 
mutual funds, private partnerships and other commingled 
vehicles. 
We also provide tailored wealth advisory services, primarily 
to ultra-high-net worth clients. We operate globally, serving 
individuals, families, family offices, and foundations and 
endowments. Our relationships are established directly or 
introduced through companies that sponsor financial 
wellness or financial planning programs for their employees, 
as well as through corporate referrals. 
We offer personalized financial planning to individuals and 
also provide customized investment advisory solutions, and 
offer structuring and execution capabilities in securities and 
derivative products across all major global markets. In 
addition, we offer clients a full range of private banking 
services, including a variety of deposit alternatives and loans 
that our clients use to finance investments in both financial 
and nonfinancial assets, bridge cash flow timing gaps or 
provide liquidity and flexibility for other needs. We also raise 
deposits from consumers through Marcus.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
75
We invest alongside our clients that invest in investment 
funds that we raise or manage. We also have investments in 
alternative assets across a range of asset classes. Our 
investing activities, which are typically longer-term, include 
investments in corporate equity, credit, real estate and 
infrastructure assets.
Asset & Wealth Management generates revenues from the 
following: 
• Management and other fees. We receive fees related to 
managing assets for institutional and individual clients, 
providing investing and wealth advisory solutions, 
providing financial planning and counseling services, and 
executing brokerage transactions for wealth management 
clients. The vast majority of revenues in management and 
other fees consists of asset-based fees on client assets that 
we manage. For further information about assets under 
supervision, see “Assets Under Supervision” below. The 
fees that we charge vary by asset class, client channel and 
the types of services provided, and are affected by 
investment performance, as well as asset inflows and 
redemptions. 
• Incentive fees. In certain circumstances, we also receive 
incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s or a 
separately managed account’s return, or when the return 
exceeds a specified benchmark or other performance 
targets. Such fees include overrides, which consist of the 
increased share of the income and gains derived primarily 
from our private equity and credit funds when the return 
on a fund’s investments over the life of the fund exceeds 
certain threshold returns. 
• Private banking and lending. Our private banking and 
lending activities include issuing loans to our wealth 
management clients. Such loans are generally secured by 
commercial and residential real estate, securities or other 
assets. We also raise deposits from wealth management 
clients, including through Marcus. Private banking and 
lending revenues include net interest income allocated to 
deposits and net interest income earned on loans to 
individual clients. 
• Equity investments. Includes investing activities related 
to our asset management activities primarily related to 
public and private equity investments in corporate, real 
estate and infrastructure assets. We also make investments 
through CIEs, substantially all of which are engaged in real 
estate investment activities. In addition, we make 
investments in connection with our activities to satisfy 
requirements under the Community Reinvestment Act, 
primarily through our Urban Investment Group. 
• Debt investments. Includes lending activities related to 
our asset management activities, including investing in 
corporate debt, lending to middle-market clients, and 
providing financing for real estate and other assets. These 
activities include investments in mezzanine debt, senior 
debt and distressed debt securities. 
The table below presents our Asset & Wealth Management 
assets. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 
36,364 $ 48,677 
Collateralized agreements
 
12,126  
14,020 
Customer and other receivables
 
19,999  
14,859 
Trading assets
 
41,724  
27,324 
Investments
 
23,130  
24,487 
Loans
 
46,694  
45,866 
Other assets
 
13,291  
16,630 
Total
$ 193,328 $ 191,863 
The table below presents details about our Asset & Wealth 
Management loans. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate
$ 
7,377 $ 11,715 
Real estate
 
18,053  
16,603 
Securities-based
 
12,198  
10,863 
Other collateralized
 
8,027  
6,698 
Other
 
1,951  
1,121 
Loans, gross
 
47,606  
47,000 
Allowance for loan losses
 
(912)  
(1,134) 
Total loans
$ 
46,694 $ 45,866 
In the table above, gross loans included $38 billion of loans as 
of December 2024 and $33 billion of loans as of December 
2023 that were related to Private banking and lending. 
The average Asset & Wealth Management gross loans were 
$45.84 billion for 2024 and $51.98 billion for 2023. 
The table below presents our Asset & Wealth Management 
operating results. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Management and other fees
$ 10,425 $ 9,486 
$ 8,781 
Incentive fees
 
393  
161 
 
359 
Private banking and lending
 
2,881  
2,576 
 2,458 
Equity investments
 
1,359  
342 
 
610 
Debt investments
 
1,084  
1,315 
 1,168 
Total net revenues
 16,142  13,880 
 13,376 
Provision for credit losses
 
(232)  
(508)  
519 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
6,595  
6,144 
 5,927 
Other operating expenses
 
5,230  
6,885 
 5,623 
Total operating expenses
 11,825  13,029 
 11,550 
Pre-tax earnings
 
4,549  
1,359 
 1,307 
Provision for taxes
 
1,019  
281 
 
215 
Net earnings
 
3,530  
1,078 
 1,092 
Preferred stock dividends
 
144  
126 
 
113 
Net earnings to common
$ 3,386 $ 
952 
$ 
979 
Average common equity
$ 26,405 $ 30,078 
$ 31,762 
Return on average common equity
 12.8% 
 3.2% 
 3.1% 
In the table above, Management and other fees included fees 
from alternatives of $2.18 billion for 2024, $2.13 billion for 
2023 and $1.85 billion for 2022.
In 2024, we surpassed our target to achieve annual firmwide 
management and other fees of more than $10 billion, 
including more than $2 billion from alternatives. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
76
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
In 2024, we achieved our target of pre-tax margins in the 
mid-twenties for Asset & Wealth Management. We also have 
a target to achieve ROE in the mid-teens within the medium 
term (three to five year time horizon from year-end 2022) for 
Asset & Wealth Management. The pre-tax margin for Asset 
& Wealth Management was 28% for 2024, including the 
positive impact of 4 percentage points from the results of 
historical principal investments.
The table below presents our Asset management and Wealth 
management net revenues by line item in Asset & Wealth 
Management.
$ in millions
Asset 
management
Wealth 
management
Asset & Wealth 
Management
Year Ended December 2024
Management and other fees $ 
4,576 $ 
5,849 $ 
10,425 
Incentive fees
 
393  
–  
393 
Private banking and lending
 
–  
2,881  
2,881 
Equity investments
 
1,357  
2  
1,359 
Debt investments
 
1,084  
–  
1,084 
Total
$ 
7,410 $ 
8,732 $ 
16,142 
Year Ended December 2023
Management and other fees $ 
4,207 $ 
5,279 $ 
9,486 
Incentive fees
 
161  
–  
161 
Private banking and lending
 
–  
2,576  
2,576 
Equity investments
 
(7)  
349  
342 
Debt investments
 
1,315  
–  
1,315 
Total
$ 
5,676 $ 
8,204 $ 
13,880 
Year Ended December 2022
Management and other fees $ 
3,817 $ 
4,964 $ 
8,781 
Incentive fees
 
359  
–  
359 
Private banking and lending
 
–  
2,458  
2,458 
Equity investments
 
610  
–  
610 
Debt investments
 
1,168  
–  
1,168 
Total
$ 
5,954 $ 
7,422 $ 
13,376 
The table below presents our Equity investments net revenues 
by equity type and asset class. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Equity Type
Private equity
$ 1,303 $ 
361 
$ 2,078 
Public equity
 
56  
(19)  
(1,468) 
Total
$ 1,359 $ 
342 
$ 
610 
Asset Class
Real estate
$ 
289 $ 
(181) $ 1,482 
Corporate
 
1,070  
523 
 
(872) 
Total
$ 1,359 $ 
342 
$ 
610 
The table below presents details about our Debt investments 
net revenues. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Fair value net gains/(losses)
$ 
154 $ 
(61) $ 
(415) 
Net interest income
 
930  
1,376 
 
1,583 
Total
$ 1,084 $ 1,315 
$ 1,168 
Operating Environment. During 2024, Asset & Wealth 
Management 
operated 
in 
an 
environment 
generally 
characterized by continued broad macroeconomic concerns, 
including persistent concerns about the commercial real 
estate market. However, global equity prices were generally 
higher compared with the end of 2023, positively affecting 
assets under supervision.
In the future, if market and economic conditions deteriorate, 
it may lead to a decline in asset prices, or investors 
transitioning to asset classes that typically generate lower fees 
or withdrawing their assets, and net revenues in Asset & 
Wealth Management would likely be negatively impacted. 
2024 versus 2023. Net revenues in Asset & Wealth 
Management were $16.14 billion for 2024, 16% higher than 
2023, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in 
Equity investments and higher Management and other fees. 
In addition, net revenues in Private banking and lending and 
Incentive fees were higher, while net revenues in Debt 
investments were lower. 
The increase in Equity investments net revenues primarily 
reflected significantly higher net gains from investments in 
private equities (largely reflecting the impact of net losses in 
real estate investments in the prior year). The increase in 
Management and other fees primarily reflected the impact of 
higher average assets under supervision. The increase in 
Private banking and lending net revenues primarily reflected 
the impact of the sale of the Marcus loan portfolio in 2023 
(including net revenues of approximately $(370) million 
related to the sale of substantially all of the portfolio) and the 
impact of higher direct-to-consumer deposit balances. The 
increase in Incentive fees was driven by harvesting. The 
decrease in Debt investments net revenues reflected lower net 
interest income due to a reduction in the debt investments 
balance sheet, partially offset by net gains in the current year 
compared with net losses (particularly in real estate 
investments) in the prior year. 
Provision for credit losses was a net benefit of $232 million 
for 2024, compared with a net benefit of $508 million for 
2023. The net benefit for 2024 reflected a net benefit related 
to the wholesale portfolio (driven by paydowns). The net 
benefit for 2023 primarily reflected reserve reductions related 
to the sale of substantially all of the Marcus loan portfolio 
and lower balances in corporate loans, partially offset by 
impairments.
Operating expenses were $11.83 billion for 2024, 9% lower 
than 2023, due to significantly lower expenses, including 
impairments, related to commercial real estate in CIEs, 
partially offset by higher compensation and benefits expenses 
(reflecting 
improved 
operating 
performance). 
Pre-tax 
earnings were $4.55 billion for 2024, compared with $1.36 
billion for 2023. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
77
Assets Under Supervision. AUS includes our institutional 
clients’ assets, assets sourced through third-party distributors 
and high-net-worth clients’ assets where we earn a fee for 
managing assets on a discretionary basis. This includes net 
assets in our mutual funds, hedge funds, credit funds, private 
equity funds, real estate funds, and separately managed 
accounts for institutional and individual investors. AUS also 
includes client assets invested with third-party managers, 
private bank deposits and advisory relationships where we 
earn a fee for advisory and other services, but do not have 
investment discretion. AUS does not include the self-directed 
brokerage assets of our clients. 
The table below presents information about our firmwide 
period-end AUS by asset class, client channel, region and 
vehicle.
As of December
$ in billions
2024
2023
2022
Asset Class
Alternative investments
$ 
336 $ 
295 $ 
263 
Equity
 
772  
658  
563 
Fixed income
 1,184  1,122  1,010 
Total long-term AUS
 2,292  2,075  1,836 
Liquidity products
 
845  
737  
711 
Total AUS
$ 3,137 $ 2,812 $ 2,547 
Client Channel
Institutional
$ 1,078 $ 1,033 $ 
905 
Wealth management
 
929  
798  
712 
Third-party distributed
 1,130  
981  
930 
Total AUS
$ 3,137 $ 2,812 $ 2,547 
Region
Americas
$ 2,235 $ 1,951 $ 1,806 
EMEA
 
683  
653  
548 
Asia
 
219  
208  
193 
Total AUS
$ 3,137 $ 2,812 $ 2,547 
Vehicle
Separate accounts
$ 1,687 $ 1,557 $ 1,388 
Public funds
 1,004  
901  
862 
Private funds and other
 
446  
354  
297 
Total AUS
$ 3,137 $ 2,812 $ 2,547 
In the table above: 
• Liquidity products includes money market funds and 
private bank deposits. 
• EMEA represents Europe, Middle East and Africa. 
Total wealth management client assets (consisting of AUS, 
brokerage assets and Marcus deposits) were approximately 
$1.6 trillion as of December 2024.
The table below presents changes in our AUS.  
Year Ended December
$ in billions
2024
2023
2022
Beginning balance
$ 2,812 $ 2,547 
$ 2,470 
Net inflows/(outflows):
Alternative investments
 
38  
25 
 
19 
Equity
 
15  
(3)  
13 
Fixed income
 
53  
52 
 
18 
Total long-term AUS net inflows/(outflows)
 
106  
74 
 
50 
Liquidity products
 
108  
27 
 
16 
Total AUS net inflows/(outflows)
 
214  
101 
 
66 
Acquisitions/(dispositions)
 
–  
(23)  
316 
Net market appreciation/(depreciation)
 
111  
187 
 
(305) 
Ending balance
$ 3,137 $ 2,812 
$ 2,547 
In the table above:
• During 2024, our AUS increased $325 billion due to net 
inflows (across all asset classes) and net market 
appreciation (primarily in equity assets).
• During 2023, our AUS increased $265 billion due to net 
market appreciation (primarily in equity and fixed income 
assets) and net inflows (driven by fixed income assets, 
liquidity products and alternative investments assets), 
partially offset by the impact of dispositions (related to the 
sale of Personal Financial Management (PFM)). 
• During 2022, our AUS increased $77 billion due to the 
impact of acquisitions (primarily related to the acquisition 
of NN Investment Partners) and net inflows (across all 
asset classes), partially offset by net market depreciation 
(primarily in fixed income and equity assets).
The table below presents information about our total AUS 
net inflows/(outflows) by client channel. 
Year Ended December
$ in billions
2024
2023
2022
Institutional
$ 
38 $ 
38 
$ 
16 
Wealth management
 
61  
31 
 
39 
Third-party distributed
 
115  
32 
 
11 
Total AUS net inflows/(outflows)
$ 214 $ 101 
$ 
66 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
78
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents information about our average 
monthly firmwide AUS by asset class. 
Average for the
Year Ended December
$ in billions
2024
2023
2022
Asset Class
Alternative investments
$ 
314 $ 
269 
$ 253 
Equity
 
731  
610 
 
581 
Fixed income
 1,164  1,050 
 
992 
Total long-term AUS
 2,209  1,929 
 1,826 
Liquidity products
 
751  
749 
 
693 
Total AUS
$ 2,960 $ 2,678 
$ 2,519 
In addition to our AUS, we have discretion over alternative 
investments where we currently do not earn management fees 
(non-fee-earning alternative assets). 
We earn management fees on client assets that we manage 
and also receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a 
fund’s or a separately managed account’s return, or when the 
return exceeds a specified benchmark or other performance 
targets. These incentive fees are recognized when it is 
probable that a significant reversal of such fees will not 
occur. Our estimated unrecognized incentive fees were 
$4.12  billion as of December 2024 and $3.77  billion as of 
December 2023. Such amounts are based on the completion 
of the funds’ financial statements, which is generally one 
quarter in arrears. These fees will be recognized, assuming no 
decline in fair value, if and when it is probable that a 
significant reversal of such fees will not occur, which is 
generally when such fees are no longer subject to fluctuations 
in the market value of the assets. 
The table below presents our average effective management 
fee (which excludes non-asset-based fees) earned on our 
firmwide AUS by asset class. 
Year Ended December
Effective fees (bps)
2024
2023
2022
Alternative investments
62
64
64
Equity
55
57
57
Fixed income
17
17
17
Liquidity products
15
15
14
Total average effective fee
31
31
31
The table below presents details about our monthly average 
AUS for alternative investments and the average effective 
management fee we earned on such assets. 
$ in billions
Direct
strategies
Fund of
funds
Total
Year Ended December 2024
Average AUS
Corporate equity
$ 
34 $ 
84 $ 
118 
Credit
 
48  
12  
60 
Real estate
 
13  
14  
27 
Hedge funds and other
 
45  
26  
71 
Funds and discretionary accounts
$ 
140 $ 
136 $ 
276 
Advisory accounts
 
38 
Total average AUS for alternative investments
$ 
314 
Effective Fees (bps)
Corporate equity
 
122  
55  
75 
Credit
 
82  
10  
71 
Real estate
 
88  
32  
58 
Hedge funds and other
 
68  
45  
59 
Funds and discretionary accounts
 
88  
47  
68 
Advisory accounts
 
17 
Total average effective fee
 
62 
Year Ended December 2023
Average AUS
Corporate equity
$ 
29 $ 
70 $ 
99 
Credit
 
44  
2  
46 
Real estate
 
11  
9  
20 
Hedge funds and other
 
42  
22  
64 
Funds and discretionary accounts
$ 
126 $ 
103 $ 
229 
Advisory accounts
 
40 
Total average AUS for alternative investments
$ 
269 
Effective Fees (bps)
Corporate equity
 
125  
61  
80 
Credit
 
80  
37  
78 
Real estate
 
82  
42  
64 
Hedge funds and other
 
67  
53  
62 
Funds and discretionary accounts
 
86  
57  
73 
Advisory accounts
 
16 
Total average effective fee
 
64 
Year Ended December 2022
Average AUS
Corporate equity
$ 
27 $ 
61 $ 
88 
Credit
 
36  
2  
38 
Real estate
 
10  
8  
18 
Hedge funds and other
 
45  
22  
67 
Funds and discretionary accounts
$ 
118 $ 
93 $ 
211 
Advisory accounts
 
42 
Total average AUS for alternative investments
$ 
253 
Effective Fees (bps)
Corporate equity
 
133  
61  
83 
Credit
 
81  
51  
80 
Real estate
 
87  
50  
70 
Hedge funds and other
 
64  
49  
59 
Funds and discretionary accounts
 
87  
57  
74 
Advisory accounts
 
16 
Total average effective fee
 
64 
In the table above, direct strategies primarily includes our 
private equity, growth equity, private credit, liquid 
alternatives and real estate strategies. Fund of funds primarily 
includes our business which invests in leading private equity, 
hedge fund, real estate and credit third-party managers as a 
limited partner, secondary-market investor, co-investor or 
management company partner. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
79
The table below presents information about our period-end 
AUS for alternative investments, non-fee-earning alternative 
investments and total alternative investments. 
$ in billions
AUS
Non-fee-earning
alternative
assets
Total
alternative
assets
As of December 2024
Corporate equity
$ 131 $ 
73 $ 
204 
Credit
62
79
141
Real estate
30
24
54
Hedge funds and other
76
3
79
Funds and discretionary accounts
299
179
478
Advisory accounts
37
2
39
Total alternative investments
$ 336 $ 
181 $ 
517 
As of December 2023
Corporate equity
$ 109 $ 
77 $ 
186 
Credit
55
75
130
Real estate
22
32
54
Hedge funds and other
66
3
69
Funds and discretionary accounts
252
187
439
Advisory accounts
43
3
46
Total alternative investments
$ 295 $ 
190 $ 
485 
As of December 2022
Corporate equity
$ 94 $ 
76 $ 
170 
Credit
44
73
117
Real estate
18
36
54
Hedge funds and other
65
2
67
Funds and discretionary accounts
221
187
408
Advisory accounts
42
–
42
Total alternative investments
$ 263 $ 
187 $ 
450 
In the table above: 
• Corporate equity primarily includes private equity. 
• Total alternative assets included uncalled capital that is 
available for future investing of $61 billion as of December 
2024 and $58 billion as of December 2023. 
• Non-fee-earning alternative assets primarily includes 
investments that we hold on our balance sheet, our 
unfunded commitments, unfunded commitments of our 
clients (where we do not charge fees on commitments), 
credit facilities collateralized by fund assets and employee 
funds. Our calculation of non-fee-earning alternative assets 
may not be comparable to similar calculations used by 
other companies. 
• Non-fee-earning alternative assets primarily includes our 
direct investing strategies, including private equity, growth 
equity, private credit and real estate strategies.
Our target is to grow our total credit alternative assets to 
$300 billion by the end of 2028.
The table below presents information about third-party 
commitments raised in our alternatives business from the 
beginning of 2020 through 2024. 
As of
$ in billions
December 2024
Included in AUS
$ 
242 
Included in non-fee-earning alternative assets
 
81 
Third-party commitments raised
$ 
323 
In the table above, commitments included in non-fee-earning 
alternative assets included approximately $61 billion, which 
will begin to earn fees (and become AUS) if and when the 
commitments are drawn and assets are invested. In 2024, we 
raised $72 billion in third-party commitments in our 
alternatives business, including $28 billion in corporate 
equity, $19 billion in credit, $6 billion in real estate and $19 
billion in hedge funds and other. Since 2019, we have raised 
$323 billion of third-party commitments in our alternatives 
business and expect fundraising in 2025 to be consistent with 
levels achieved in recent years.
The table below presents information about alternative 
investments in Asset & Wealth Management that we hold on 
our balance sheet by asset type. 
As of December
$ in billions
2024
2023
Loans
$ 
8.5 $ 
12.9 
Debt securities
 
9.0  
10.8 
Equity securities
 
13.4  
13.2 
Other
 
5.6  
9.3 
Total
$ 
36.5 $ 
46.2 
The table below presents further information about our 
alternative investments in Asset & Wealth Management that 
we hold on our balance sheet.
As of December
$ in billions
2024
2023
Client co-invest
$ 
18.4 $ 
21.3 
Firmwide initiatives
 
8.7  
8.6 
Historical principal investments: 
Loans
 
1.6  
3.5 
Debt securities
 
2.6  
3.6 
Equity securities
 
3.5  
4.0 
Other
 
1.7  
5.2 
Total historical principal investments
 
9.4  
16.3 
Total
$ 
36.5 $ 
46.2 
In the table above: 
• Client co-invest primarily includes our investments in funds 
that we raise and manage or where we have invested 
alongside our clients.
• Firmwide initiatives primarily includes our investments 
related to the Community Reinvestment Act and our 
corporate engagement programs, such as One Million 
Black Women. 
• Historical principal investments includes our remaining 
balance sheet alternative investments portfolio that we plan 
to reduce. This portfolio was approximately $30 billion as 
of December 2022 and we expect to sell down the vast 
majority of this portfolio by the end of 2026. The impact of 
historical principal investments to our pre-tax earnings was 
$939 million for 2024. Attributed equity associated with 
historical 
principal 
investments 
was 
approximately 
$4.0 billion as of December 2024.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
80
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents the rollforward of our alternative 
investments categorized as historical principal investments 
for 2024. 
Historical
principal
$ in billions
investments
Beginning balance
$ 
16.3 
Additions
 
0.7 
Dispositions
 
(7.9) 
Net markups/(markdowns)
 
0.3 
Ending balance
$ 
9.4 
In the table above, dispositions included approximately $400 
million of investments that were transferred out of historical 
principal investments into client co-invest.
Loans and Debt Securities. The table below presents the 
concentration of loans and debt securities within our 
alternative investments by accounting classification, region 
and industry.  
As of December
$ in billions
2024
2023
Loans
$ 
8.5 $ 
12.9 
Debt securities
 
9.0  
10.8 
Total
$ 
17.5 $ 
23.7 
Accounting Classification
Debt securities at fair value
 51% 
 45% 
Loans at amortized cost
 45% 
 49% 
Loans at fair value
 3% 
 3% 
Loans held for sale
 1% 
 3% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Region
Americas
 54% 
 52% 
EMEA
 35% 
 37% 
Asia
 11% 
 11% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Industry
Consumer & Retail
 11% 
 11% 
Financial Institutions
 9% 
 6% 
Healthcare
 12% 
 15% 
Industrials
 14% 
 18% 
Natural Resources & Utilities
 2% 
 2% 
Real Estate
 13% 
 11% 
Technology, Media & Telecommunications
 29% 
 28% 
Other
 10% 
 9% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Equity 
Securities. 
The 
table 
below 
presents 
the 
concentration of equity securities within our alternative 
investments by region and industry. 
As of December
$ in billions
2024
2023
Equity securities
$ 
13.4 $ 
13.2 
Region
Americas
 68% 
 70% 
EMEA
 17% 
 15% 
Asia
 15% 
 15% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Industry
Consumer & Retail
 5% 
 6% 
Financial Institutions
 15% 
 11% 
Healthcare
 6% 
 6% 
Industrials
 7% 
 10% 
Natural Resources & Utilities
 14% 
 13% 
Real Estate
 27% 
 30% 
Technology, Media & Telecommunications
 24% 
 22% 
Other
 2% 
 2% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above: 
• Equity securities included $12.6  billion as of December 
2024 and $12.1  billion as of December 2023 of private 
equity positions, and $0.8 billion as of December 2024 and 
$1.1 billion as of December 2023 of public equity positions 
that converted from private equity upon the initial public 
offerings of the underlying companies. 
• The concentrations for real estate equity securities as of 
December 2024 were 14% for multifamily (13% as of 
December 2023), 5% for mixed use (8% as of December 
2023), 3% for industrials (3% as of December 2023), 2% 
for office (2% as of December 2023) and 3% for other real 
estate equity securities (4% as of December 2023). 
The table below presents the concentration of equity 
securities within our alternative investments by vintage. 
Vintage
As of December 2024
2017 or earlier
 22% 
2018 - 2020
 28% 
2021 - thereafter
 50% 
Total
 100% 
As of December 2023
2016 or earlier
 25% 
2017 - 2019
 26% 
2020 - thereafter
 49% 
Total
 100% 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
81
Other. Other investments include tax credit investments 
(accounted for under the proportional amortization method 
of accounting) of $3.2  billion as of December 2024 and 
$3.4  billion as of December 2023. Additionally, other 
investments includes CIEs, which held assets (generally 
accounted for at historical cost less depreciation) of 
$2.4  billion as of December 2024 and $5.9  billion as of 
December 2023, and were funded with liabilities of 
approximately $1.2  billion as of December 2024 and 
$3.5  billion as of December 2023. Substantially all such 
liabilities were nonrecourse, thereby reducing our equity at 
risk.
The table below presents the concentration of CIE assets, net 
of financings, within our alternative investments by region 
and asset class. 
As of December
$ in billions
2024
2023
CIE assets, net of financings
$ 
1.2 $ 
2.4 
Region
Americas
 72% 
 61% 
EMEA
 15% 
 25% 
Asia
 13% 
 14% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Asset Class
Hospitality
 7% 
 6% 
Industrials
 23% 
 16% 
Multifamily
 15% 
 13% 
Office
 29% 
 24% 
Retail
 6% 
 7% 
Senior Housing
 4% 
 15% 
Student Housing
 1% 
 7% 
Other
 15% 
 12% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
The table below presents the concentration of CIE assets, net 
of financings, within our alternative investments by vintage. 
Vintage
As of December 2024
2017 or earlier
 29% 
2018 - 2020
 37% 
2021 - thereafter
 34% 
Total
 100% 
As of December 2023
2016 or earlier
 12% 
2017 - 2019
 57% 
2020 - thereafter
 31% 
Total
 100% 
Platform Solutions
Platform Solutions includes our consumer platforms and 
transaction banking and other.
Platform Solutions generates revenues from the following:
Consumer platforms. Our Consumer platforms business 
issues credit cards, and raises deposits from Apple Card 
customers. Consumer platforms revenues primarily includes 
net interest income earned on credit card lending activities. 
See “Regulatory and Other Matters — Other Matters — 
Narrowing our Focus on Consumer-Related Activities” for 
further information.  
Transaction banking and other. We provide transaction 
banking and other services, such as deposit-taking, payment 
solutions and other cash management services, for corporate 
and institutional clients. Transaction banking revenues 
include net interest income attributed to transaction banking 
deposits. See “Regulatory and Other Matters — Other 
Matters — Narrowing our Focus on Consumer-Related 
Activities” for further information. 
The table below presents our Platform Solutions assets. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 16,041 $ 24,043 
Collateralized agreements
 
5,944  
7,651 
Customer and other receivables
 
72  
3 
Trading assets
 
20,452  
14,911 
Investments
 
3  
2 
Loans
 
18,836  
20,028 
Other assets
 
1,154  
1,846 
Total
$ 62,502 $ 68,484 
The table below presents details about our Platform 
Solutions loans. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Installment
$ 
– $ 
3,125 
Credit cards
 
21,403  
19,361 
Other
 
–  
17 
Loans, gross
 
21,403  
22,503 
Allowance for loan losses
 
(2,567)  
(2,475) 
Total loans
$ 18,836 $ 20,028 
The average Platform Solutions gross loans were $20.48 
billion for 2024 and $21.48 billion for 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
82
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents our Platform Solutions operating 
results. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Consumer platforms
$ 2,147 $ 2,072 
$ 1,176 
Transaction banking and other
 
280  
306 
 
326 
Total net revenues
 
2,427  
2,378 
 1,502 
Provision for credit losses
 
1,540  
1,135 
 1,728 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
685  
784 
 
560 
Other operating expenses
 
1,277  
2,634 
 1,203 
Total operating expenses
 
1,962  
3,418 
 1,763 
Pre-tax earnings/(loss)
 
(1,075)  (2,175) 
 (1,989) 
Provision/(benefit) for taxes
 
(241)  
(450) 
 
(328) 
Net earnings/(loss)
 
(834)  (1,725) 
 (1,661) 
Preferred stock dividends
 
25  
23 
 
12 
Net earnings/(loss) to common
$ 
(859) $ (1,748) 
$ (1,673) 
Average common equity
$ 4,573 $ 3,863 
$ 3,574 
Return on average common equity
 (18.8) %
 (45.2) %
 (46.8) %
Our target is to achieve pre-tax breakeven by the end of 2025 
for Platform Solutions. 
Operating Environment. The operating environment for 
Platform Solutions is mainly impacted by the economic 
environment in the U.S., which, during 2024, was generally 
characterized by concerns about inflation (although some 
measures had begun to improve), a continued low rate of 
unemployment and a slight increase in the pace of growth in 
consumer spending compared with 2023.
In the future, if economic conditions deteriorate, it may lead 
to a decrease in consumer spending or a deterioration in 
consumer credit, and net revenues and provision for credit 
losses in Platform Solutions would likely be negatively 
impacted.
2024 versus 2023. Net revenues in Platform Solutions were 
$2.43 billion for 2024, 2% higher than 2023.
Notwithstanding our strategic decision to narrow the focus 
on consumer-related activities, Consumer platforms net 
revenues were slightly higher compared with 2023, reflecting 
higher average credit card balances and higher average 
deposit balances, largely offset by the impact of the planned 
transition of the GM credit card program to another issuer. 
Transaction banking and other net revenues were lower, 
primarily reflecting lower net revenues related to the seller 
financing loan portfolio that was sold during 2024. See 
“Regulatory and Other Matters — Other Matters — 
Narrowing our Focus on Consumer-Related Activities” for 
further information. 
Provision for credit losses was $1.54 billion for 2024, 
compared with $1.14 billion for 2023. Provisions for 2024 
reflected net provisions related to the credit card portfolio 
(primarily driven by net charge-offs). The net provision for 
2023 reflected net provisions related to the credit card 
portfolio (primarily driven by net charge-offs), partially 
offset by a net release related to the GreenSky loan portfolio 
(including a reserve reduction related to the transfer of the 
portfolio to held for sale).
Operating expenses were $1.96 billion for 2024, 43% lower 
than 2023, primarily due to the write-down of identifiable 
intangible assets related to GreenSky and an impairment of 
goodwill related to Consumer platforms in the prior year 
period. Pre-tax loss was $1.08 billion for 2024, compared 
with a pre-tax loss of $2.18 billion for 2023.
Geographic Data 
See Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements for a 
summary of our total net revenues, pre-tax earnings and net 
earnings by geographic region.
Balance Sheet and Funding Sources 
Balance Sheet Management 
One of our risk management disciplines is our ability to 
manage the size and composition of our balance sheet. While 
our asset base changes due to client activity, market 
fluctuations and business opportunities, the size and 
composition of our balance sheet also reflects factors, 
including (i) our overall risk tolerance, (ii) the amount of 
capital we hold and (iii) our funding profile, among other 
factors. See “Capital Management and Regulatory Capital — 
Capital Management” for information about our capital 
management process. 
Although our balance sheet fluctuates on a day-to-day basis, 
our total assets at quarter-end are generally not materially 
different from those occurring within our reporting periods.
In order to ensure appropriate risk management, we seek to 
maintain a sufficiently liquid balance sheet and have 
processes in place to dynamically manage our assets and 
liabilities, which include (i) balance sheet planning, (ii) 
setting balance sheet targets, (iii) monitoring of key metrics 
and (iv) scenario analyses. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
83
Balance Sheet Planning. We prepare a balance sheet plan 
that combines our projected total assets and composition of 
assets with our expected funding sources over a three-year 
time horizon. This plan is reviewed quarterly and may be 
adjusted in response to changing business needs or market 
conditions. The objectives of this planning process are: 
• To develop our balance sheet projections, taking into 
account the general state of the financial markets and 
expected business activity levels, as well as regulatory 
requirements; 
• To allow Corporate Treasury to evaluate balance sheet 
targets of our revenue-producing units and requests to 
change such targets in the context of our overall balance 
sheet constraints, including our liability profile and capital 
levels, and key metrics; and 
• To inform the target amount, tenor and type of funding to 
raise, based on our projected assets and contractual 
maturities. 
Corporate Treasury and Risk, along with our revenue-
producing units, review current and prior period information 
and expectations for the year to prepare our balance sheet 
plan. The specific information reviewed includes asset and 
liability size and composition, target utilization, risk and 
performance measures, and capital usage. 
Our consolidated balance sheet plan, including our balance 
sheets by business, funding projections and projected key 
metrics, is reviewed and approved by the Firmwide Asset 
Liability Committee. See “Risk Management — Overview 
and Structure of Risk Management” for an overview of our 
risk management structure. 
Setting Balance Sheet Targets. We set balance sheet 
targets with the aim of ensuring that our consolidated 
balance sheet, as well as the balance sheets for our businesses 
remain within our risk appetite. The Firmwide Asset Liability 
Committee has the responsibility to review and approve 
balance sheet targets at least quarterly. Our balance sheet 
targets are set at levels which are close to actual operating 
levels, rather than at levels which reflect our maximum risk 
appetite, in order to ensure prompt escalation and discussion 
among our revenue-producing units, Corporate Treasury and 
Risk. Requests for changes in targets are evaluated after 
giving consideration to their impact on our key metrics. 
Compliance with targets is monitored by our revenue-
producing units, Corporate Treasury and Risk. 
Monitoring of Key Metrics. We monitor key balance sheet 
metrics both by business and on a consolidated basis, 
including asset and liability size and composition, target 
utilization and risk measures. We attribute assets to 
businesses and review and analyze movements resulting from 
new business activity, as well as market fluctuations. 
Scenario Analyses. We conduct various scenario analyses, 
including as part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and 
Review (CCAR) and U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act Stress Tests (DFAST), as well 
as our resolution and recovery planning. See “Capital 
Management 
and 
Regulatory 
Capital 
— 
Capital 
Management” for further information about these scenario 
analyses. These scenarios cover short- and long-term time 
horizons using various macroeconomic and firm-specific 
assumptions, based on a range of economic scenarios. We use 
these analyses to assist us in developing our longer-term 
balance sheet management strategy, including the level and 
composition of assets, funding and capital. Additionally, 
these analyses help us develop approaches for maintaining 
appropriate funding, liquidity and capital across a variety of 
situations, including a severely stressed environment. 
Balance Sheet Analysis and Metrics 
As of December 2024, total assets in our consolidated balance 
sheets were $1.68 trillion, an increase of $34.38 billion from 
December 2023, reflecting increases in trading assets of 
$93.05 billion (primarily due to an increase in government 
obligations, reflecting the impact of our and our clients’ 
activities), investments of $37.68 billion (primarily due to an 
increase in U.S. government obligations accounted for as 
available-for-sale) and loans of $12.84 billion (primarily 
reflecting our clients’ activities), partially offset by decreases 
in cash and cash equivalents of $59.49 billion (primarily 
reflecting our activity) and collateralized agreements of 
$48.52 billion (primarily reflecting our activity). See 
“Liquidity Risk Management — Cash Flows” for further 
information about cash and cash equivalents.
As of December 2024, total liabilities in our consolidated 
balance sheets were $1.55 trillion, an increase of $29.29 
billion from December 2023, primarily reflecting increases in 
collateralized financings of $35.03 billion (reflecting the 
impact of our and our clients’ activities), and deposits of 
$4.60 billion (due to an increase in consumer deposits, 
partially offset by decreases in transaction banking deposits 
and other deposits), partially offset by decreases in customer 
and other payables of $7.47 billion (primarily reflecting our 
clients’ activities) and borrowings of $5.48 billion (driven by 
net maturities).
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
84
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Our total securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
(repurchase agreements), accounted for as collateralized 
financings, were $274.38 billion as of December 2024 and 
$249.89 billion as of December 2023, which were 5% higher 
as of December 2024 and 21% higher as of December 2023 
than the average daily amount of repurchase agreements over 
the respective quarters, and 9% higher as of December 2024 
and 26% higher as of December 2023 than the average daily 
amount of repurchase agreements over the respective years. 
As of December 2024, the increase in our repurchase 
agreements relative to the average daily amount of 
repurchase agreements during the quarter and year resulted 
from lower levels of our and our clients’ activities at the end 
of the period.
The level of our repurchase agreements fluctuates between 
and within periods, primarily due to providing clients with 
access to highly liquid collateral, such as certain government 
and agency obligations, through collateralized financing 
activities. 
The table below presents information about our balance 
sheet and leverage ratios. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Total assets
$ 1,675,972 $ 1,641,594 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
$ 242,634 $ 
241,877 
Total shareholders’ equity
$ 121,996 $ 
116,905 
Leverage ratio
13.7x
14.0x
Debt-to-equity ratio
2.0x
2.1x
In the table above: 
• The leverage ratio equals total assets divided by total 
shareholders’ equity and measures the proportion of equity 
and debt we use to finance assets. This ratio is different 
from the leverage ratios included in Note 20 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
• The debt-to-equity ratio equals unsecured long-term 
borrowings divided by total shareholders’ equity. 
The 
table 
below 
presents 
information 
about 
our 
shareholders’ equity and book value per common share, 
including the reconciliation of common shareholders’ equity 
to tangible common shareholders’ equity. 
As of December
$ in millions, except per share amounts
2024
2023
Total shareholders’ equity
$ 121,996 $ 
116,905 
Preferred stock
 
(13,253)  
(11,203) 
Common shareholders’ equity
 
108,743  
105,702 
Goodwill
 
(5,853)  
(5,916) 
Identifiable intangible assets
 
(847)  
(1,177) 
Tangible common shareholders’ equity
$ 102,043 $ 
98,609 
Book value per common share
$ 
336.77 $ 
313.56 
Tangible book value per common share
$ 
316.02 $ 
292.52 
In the table above: 
• Tangible common shareholders’ equity is calculated as 
total shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill 
and identifiable intangible assets. We believe that tangible 
common shareholders’ equity is meaningful because it is a 
measure that we and investors use to assess capital 
adequacy. Tangible common shareholders’ equity is a non-
GAAP measure and may not be comparable to similar non-
GAAP measures used by other companies. 
• Book value per common share and tangible book value per 
common share are based on common shares outstanding 
and restricted stock units granted to employees with no 
future service requirements and not subject to performance 
or market conditions (collectively, basic shares) of 322.9 
million as of December 2024 and 337.1 million as of 
December 2023. We believe that tangible book value per 
common share (tangible common shareholders’ equity 
divided by basic shares) is meaningful because it is a 
measure that we and investors use to assess capital 
adequacy. Tangible book value per common share is a non-
GAAP measure and may not be comparable to similar non-
GAAP measures used by other companies.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
85
Funding Sources 
Our primary sources of funding are deposits, collateralized 
financings, unsecured short- and long-term borrowings, and 
shareholders’ equity. We seek to maintain broad and 
diversified funding sources globally across products, 
programs, markets, currencies and creditors to avoid funding 
concentrations. 
The table below presents information about our funding 
sources. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Deposits
$ 433,013 
 35% $ 428,417 
 36% 
Collateralized financings
 
358,590 
 29%  
323,564 
 27% 
Unsecured short-term borrowings
 
69,709 
 6%  
75,945 
 6% 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
 
242,634 
 20%  
241,877 
 21% 
Total shareholders’ equity
 
121,996 
 10%  
116,905 
 10% 
Total
$ 1,225,942  100% $ 1,186,708  100% 
Our funding is primarily raised in U.S. dollar, Euro, British 
pound and Japanese yen. We generally distribute our funding 
products through our own sales force and third-party 
distributors to a large, diverse creditor base in a variety of 
markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We believe that 
our relationships with our creditors are critical to our 
liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments, 
securities lenders, corporations, pension funds, insurance 
companies, mutual funds and individuals. We have imposed 
various internal guidelines to monitor creditor concentration 
across our funding programs. 
Deposits. Our deposits provide us with a diversified source 
of funding and reduce our reliance on wholesale funding. We 
raise deposits, including savings, demand and time deposits, 
from consumers, private bank clients, through internal and 
third-party broker-dealers, transaction banking clients and 
other institutional clients. Substantially all of our deposits are 
raised through Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA), 
Goldman Sachs International Bank (GSIB) and Goldman 
Sachs Bank Europe SE (GSBE).  
The table below presents the types and sources of deposits. 
$ in millions
Savings and
 Demand
Time
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Consumer
$ 126,694 $ 
54,541 $ 181,235 
Private bank
 
90,013  
6,489  
96,502 
Brokered certificates of deposit
 
–  
41,014  
41,014 
Deposit sweep programs
 
30,927  
–  
30,927 
Transaction banking
 
60,925  
1,820  
62,745 
Other
 
1,776  
18,814  
20,590 
Total
$ 310,335 $ 122,678 $ 433,013 
As of December 2023
 
 
Consumer
$ 
120,211 $ 
36,903 $ 157,114 
Private bank
 
86,457  
6,855  
93,312 
Brokered certificates of deposit
 
–  
46,860  
46,860 
Deposit sweep programs
 
31,916  
–  
31,916 
Transaction banking
 
68,177  
3,643  
71,820 
Other
 
1,568  
25,827  
27,395 
Total
$ 
308,329 $ 
120,088 $ 428,417 
In the table above: 
• Savings and demand accounts consist of money market 
deposit accounts, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts 
and demand deposit accounts that have no stated maturity 
or expiration date. 
• Time deposits had a weighted average maturity of 
approximately 0.6 years as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023. 
• Consumer deposits consist of deposits from both Marcus 
and Apple Card customers.
• Deposit sweep programs include contractual agreements 
with U.S. broker-dealers who sweep client cash to FDIC-
insured deposits.
• Transaction banking deposits consist of deposits that we 
raised through our cash management services business for 
corporate and other institutional clients. 
• Other deposits are substantially all from institutional 
clients. 
• Deposits insured by the FDIC were $234.54 billion as of 
December 2024 and $221.52 billion as of December 2023. 
• Deposits insured by non-U.S. insurance programs were 
$25.98 billion as of December 2024 and $26.00 billion as of 
December 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
86
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about our deposits, including a maturity 
profile of our time deposits.
Secured Funding. We fund a significant amount of 
inventory and a portion of investments on a secured basis. 
Secured funding includes collateralized financings in the 
consolidated balance sheets. See Note 11 to the consolidated 
financial statements for further information about our 
collateralized financings, including its maturity profile. We 
may also pledge our inventory and investments as collateral 
for securities borrowed under a securities lending agreement. 
We also use our own inventory and investments to cover 
transactions in which we or our clients have sold securities 
that have not yet been purchased. Secured funding is less 
sensitive to changes in our credit quality than unsecured 
funding, due to our posting of collateral to our lenders. 
Nonetheless, we analyze the refinancing risk of our secured 
funding activities, taking into account trade tenors, maturity 
profiles, counterparty concentrations, collateral eligibility 
and counterparty rollover probabilities. We seek to mitigate 
our refinancing risk by executing term trades with staggered 
maturities, diversifying counterparties, raising excess secured 
funding and pre-funding residual risk through our GCLA. 
We seek to raise secured funding with a term appropriate for 
the liquidity of the assets that are being financed, and we seek 
longer maturities for secured funding collateralized by asset 
classes that may be harder to fund on a secured basis, 
especially during times of market stress. Our secured funding, 
excluding funding collateralized by liquid government and 
agency obligations, is primarily executed for tenors of one 
month or greater and is primarily executed through term 
repurchase agreements and securities loaned contracts.
Assets that may be harder to fund on a secured basis during 
times of market stress include certain financial instruments in 
the following categories: mortgage- and other asset-backed 
loans and securities, non-investment-grade corporate debt 
securities, equity securities and emerging market securities. 
We also raise financing through other types of collateralized 
financings, such as secured loans and notes. GS Bank USA 
has access to funding from the Federal Home Loan Bank. 
Our outstanding borrowings from the Federal Home Loan 
Bank were $5.04 billion as of December 2024 and we had no 
outstanding borrowings as of December 2023. Additionally, 
we have access to funding through the Federal Reserve 
discount window, but we do not rely on this funding in our 
liquidity planning and stress testing. 
Unsecured Short-Term Borrowings. A significant portion 
of our unsecured short-term borrowings was originally long-
term debt that is scheduled to mature within one year of the 
reporting date. We use unsecured short-term borrowings, 
including U.S. and non-U.S. hybrid financial instruments and 
commercial paper, to finance liquid assets and for other cash 
management purposes. In accordance with regulatory 
requirements, Group Inc. does not issue debt with an original 
maturity of less than one year, other than to its subsidiaries. 
See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about our unsecured short-term 
borrowings. 
Unsecured Long-Term Borrowings. Unsecured long-term 
borrowings, including structured notes, are raised through 
syndicated U.S. registered offerings, U.S. registered and Rule 
144A medium-term note programs, offshore medium-term 
note offerings and other debt offerings. We issue in different 
tenors, 
currencies 
and 
products 
to 
maximize 
the 
diversification of our investor base. 
The table below presents our quarterly unsecured long-term 
borrowings maturity profile. 
$ in millions
First
Quarter
Second
Quarter
Third
Quarter
Fourth
Quarter
Total
As of December 2024
2026
$ 10,016 $ 6,947 $ 8,179 $ 11,788 $ 
36,930 
2027
$ 13,058 $ 8,700 $ 8,091 $ 11,289  
41,138 
2028
$ 11,495 $ 6,191 $ 4,542 $ 6,976  
29,204 
2029
$ 4,490 $ 10,308 $ 6,912 $ 11,026  
32,736 
2030 - thereafter
 
102,626 
Total
$ 242,634 
The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long-term 
borrowings as of December 2024 was approximately seven 
years. To mitigate refinancing risk, we seek to limit the 
principal amount of debt maturing over the course of any 
monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual time horizon. We 
enter into interest rate swaps to convert a portion of our 
unsecured 
long-term 
borrowings 
into 
floating-rate 
obligations to manage our exposure to interest rates. See 
Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further 
information about our unsecured long-term borrowings.  
Shareholders’ Equity. Shareholders’ equity is a stable and 
perpetual source of funding. See Note 19 to the consolidated 
financial statements for further information about our 
shareholders’ equity.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
87
Capital Management and Regulatory Capital 
Capital adequacy is of critical importance to us. We have in 
place a comprehensive capital management policy that 
provides a framework, defines objectives and establishes 
guidelines to assist us in maintaining the appropriate level 
and composition of capital in both business-as-usual and 
stressed conditions. 
Capital Management 
We determine the appropriate amount and composition of 
our capital by considering multiple factors, including our 
current and future regulatory capital requirements, the results 
of our capital planning and stress testing process, the results 
of resolution capital models and other factors, such as rating 
agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the 
business environment and conditions in the financial 
markets. 
We manage our capital requirements and the levels of our 
capital usage principally by setting targets on our balance 
sheet and risk-weighted assets (RWAs), in each case at both 
the firmwide and business levels. 
We principally manage the level and composition of our 
capital through issuances and repurchases of our common 
stock. 
We may issue, redeem or repurchase our preferred stock and 
subordinated debt or other forms of capital as business 
conditions 
warrant. 
Prior 
to 
such 
redemptions 
or 
repurchases, we must receive approval from the FRB. See 
Notes 14 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about our subordinated debt and 
preferred stock. 
Capital Planning and Stress Testing Process. As part of 
capital planning, we project sources and uses of capital given 
a range of business environments, including stressed 
conditions. Our stress testing process is designed to identify 
and measure material risks associated with our business 
activities, including market risk, credit risk, operational risk 
and liquidity risk, as well as our ability to generate revenues. 
Our capital planning process incorporates an internal capital 
adequacy assessment with the objective of ensuring that we 
are appropriately capitalized relative to the risks in our 
businesses. We incorporate stress scenarios into our capital 
planning process with a goal of holding sufficient capital to 
ensure we remain adequately capitalized after experiencing a 
severe stress event. Our assessment of capital adequacy is 
viewed in tandem with our assessment of liquidity adequacy 
and is integrated into our overall risk management structure, 
governance and policy framework. 
Our stress tests incorporate our internally designed stress 
scenarios, including our internally developed severely adverse 
scenario, and those required by the FRB, and are designed to 
capture our specific vulnerabilities and risks. We provide 
further information about our stress test processes and a 
summary of the results on our website as described in 
“Business — Available Information” in Part I, Item 1 of this 
Form 10-K.    
As required by the FRB’s CCAR rules, we submit an annual 
capital plan for review by the FRB. The purpose of the FRB’s 
review is to ensure that we have a robust, forward-looking 
capital planning process that accounts for our unique risks 
and that permits continued operation during times of 
economic and financial stress. 
The FRB evaluates us based, in part, on whether we have the 
capital necessary to continue operating under the baseline 
and severely adverse scenarios provided by the FRB and those 
developed internally. This evaluation also takes into account 
our process for identifying risk, our controls and governance 
for capital planning, and our guidelines for making capital 
planning decisions. In addition, the FRB evaluates our plan to 
make capital distributions (i.e., dividend payments and 
repurchases or redemptions of stock, subordinated debt or 
other capital securities) and issue capital, across the range of 
macroeconomic scenarios and firm-specific assumptions. The 
FRB determines the SCB applicable to us based on its own 
annual stress test. The SCB under the Standardized approach 
is calculated as (i) the difference between our starting and 
minimum 
projected 
CET1 
capital 
ratios 
under 
the 
supervisory severely adverse scenario and (ii) our planned 
common stock dividends for each of the fourth through 
seventh quarters of the planning horizon, expressed as a 
percentage of RWAs. 
Based on our 2024 CCAR submission, the FRB increased our 
SCB from 5.5% to 6.2%, resulting in a Standardized CET1 
capital ratio requirement of 13.7% for the period from 
October 1, 2024 through September 30, 2025. See “Share 
Repurchase Program” for further information about common 
stock 
repurchases 
and 
dividends 
and 
“Consolidated 
Regulatory Capital” for further information about the G-SIB 
surcharge. We published a summary of our annual DFAST 
results in June 2024. See “Business — Available Information” 
in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
GS Bank USA is required to conduct stress tests on an annual 
basis and publish a summary of certain results. GS Bank USA 
published a summary of its annual DFAST results in June 
2024. See “Business — Available Information” in Part I, Item 
1 of this Form 10-K.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
88
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Goldman Sachs International (GSI), GSIB and GSBE also 
have their own capital planning and stress testing processes, 
which incorporate internally designed stress tests developed 
in accordance with the guidelines of their respective 
regulators. 
Contingency Capital Plan. As part of our comprehensive 
capital management policy, we maintain a contingency 
capital plan. Our contingency capital plan provides a 
framework for analyzing and responding to a perceived or 
actual capital deficiency, including, but not limited to, 
identification of drivers of a capital deficiency, as well as 
mitigants and potential actions. It outlines the appropriate 
communication procedures to follow during a crisis period, 
including internal dissemination of information, as well as 
timely communication with external stakeholders. 
Capital Attribution. We assess the capital usage of each of 
our businesses based on our attributed equity framework. 
This framework considers many factors, including our 
internal assessment of risks as well as the regulatory capital 
requirements related to our business activities.
We review and make any necessary adjustments to our 
attributed equity in January each year, to reflect, among 
other things, our most recent stress test results and changes to 
our regulatory capital requirements. On January 1, 2024, our 
allocation of attributed equity changed (relative to the 
allocation as of December 2023) as follows: attributed equity 
increased by approximately $1.6 billion for Platform 
Solutions, 
while 
attributed 
equity 
decreased 
by 
approximately $1.2 billion for Asset & Wealth Management 
and approximately $0.4 billion for Global Banking & 
Markets. On January 1, 2025, our allocation of attributed 
equity changed (relative to the allocation as of December 
2024) 
as 
follows: 
attributed 
equity 
increased 
by 
approximately $0.4 billion for Global Banking & Markets, 
while attributed equity decreased by approximately $0.3 
billion for Asset & Wealth Management and approximately 
$0.1 billion for Platform Solutions. See “Results of 
Operations — Segment Assets and Operating Results — 
Segment Operating Results” for information about our 
average quarterly attributed equity by segment.
Share Repurchase Program. We use our share repurchase 
program to help maintain the appropriate level of common 
equity. On an annual basis, we submit a Board of Directors 
of Group Inc. (Board) approved capital plan to the Federal 
Reserve, which includes planned share repurchases for each 
quarter. The share repurchases are effected primarily through 
regular 
open-market 
purchases 
(which 
may 
include 
repurchase plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 and 
accelerated share repurchases), the amounts and timing of 
which are determined primarily by our current and projected 
capital position, and capital deployment opportunities, but 
which may also be influenced by general market conditions 
and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common 
stock. 
In 2023, the Board approved a share repurchase program 
authorizing repurchases of up to $30 billion of our common 
stock. The program has no set expiration or termination 
date. See “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related 
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities” in Part II, Item 5 of this Form 10-K and Note 19 to 
the consolidated financial statements for further information 
about our share repurchase program, and see above for 
information about our capital planning and stress testing 
process.
During 2024, we returned a total of $11.80 billion of capital 
to common shareholders, including $8.00 billion of common 
share repurchases and $3.80  billion of common stock 
dividends. 
Consistent 
with 
our 
capital 
management 
philosophy, we will continue prioritizing deployment of 
capital for our clients where returns are attractive and 
distribute any excess capital to shareholders through 
dividends and share repurchases, while targeting a 50 to 100 
basis point buffer above our capital requirement. 
We are subject to a one percent non-deductible federal excise 
tax (buyback tax) that is applicable to the fair market value 
of certain corporate share repurchases. The fair market value 
of share repurchases subject to the tax is reduced by the fair 
market value of any applicable stock issued during the 
calendar year, including stock issued to employees. The 
buyback tax did not have a material impact on our financial 
condition, results of operations or cash flows for 2024. 
Resolution Capital Models. In connection with our 
resolution planning efforts, we have established a Resolution 
Capital Adequacy and Positioning framework, which is 
designed to ensure that our major subsidiaries (GS Bank 
USA, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (GS&Co.), GSI, GSIB, 
GSBE, Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), Goldman 
Sachs Asset Management, L.P. and Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management International) have access to sufficient loss-
absorbing capacity (in the form of equity, subordinated debt 
and unsecured senior debt) so that they are able to wind 
down following a Group Inc. bankruptcy filing in accordance 
with our preferred resolution strategy. 
In addition, we have established a triggers and alerts 
framework, which is designed to provide the Board with 
information needed to make an informed decision on 
whether and when to commence bankruptcy proceedings for 
Group Inc. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
89
Rating Agency Guidelines 
The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the 
obligations of Group Inc., which directly issues or guarantees 
substantially all of our senior unsecured debt obligations. 
GS&Co. and GSI have been assigned long- and short-term 
issuer ratings by certain credit rating agencies. GS Bank USA, 
GSIB and GSBE have also been assigned long- and short-term 
issuer ratings, as well as ratings on their long- and short-term 
bank deposits. In addition, credit rating agencies have 
assigned ratings to debt obligations of certain other 
subsidiaries of Group Inc. 
The level and composition of our capital are among the many 
factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each 
agency has its own definition of eligible capital and 
methodology 
for 
evaluating 
capital 
adequacy, 
and 
assessments are generally based on a combination of factors 
rather than a single calculation. See “Risk Management — 
Liquidity Risk Management — Credit Ratings” for further 
information about credit ratings of Group Inc., GS Bank 
USA, GSIB, GSBE, GS&Co. and GSI. 
Consolidated Regulatory Capital 
We 
are 
subject 
to 
consolidated 
regulatory 
capital 
requirements which are calculated in accordance with the 
regulations of the FRB (Capital Framework). Under the 
Capital Framework, we are an “Advanced approaches” 
banking organization and have been designated as a G-SIB. In 
managing our capital, we consider a number of different 
capital requirements, the most binding of which can vary 
over time. 
The capital requirements calculated under the Capital 
Framework 
include 
the 
capital 
conservation 
buffer 
requirements, which are comprised of a 2.5% buffer (under 
the Advanced Capital Rules), the SCB (under the 
Standardized Capital Rules), a countercyclical capital buffer 
(under both Capital Rules) and the G-SIB surcharge (under 
both Capital Rules). Our G-SIB surcharge is 3.0% for both 
2024 and 2025 and is expected to be 3.5% beginning in 2026. 
The G-SIB surcharge and countercyclical capital buffer in the 
future may differ due to additional guidance from our 
regulators and/or positional changes, and our SCB can 
change significantly from year to year based on the results of 
the annual supervisory stress tests. Our target is to maintain 
capital ratios equal to the regulatory requirements plus a 
buffer of 50 to 100 basis points. 
See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about our risk-based capital ratios and 
leverage ratios, and the Capital Framework. 
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) 
We are also subject to the FRB’s TLAC and related 
requirements. Failure to comply with the TLAC and related 
requirements would result in restrictions being imposed by 
the FRB and could limit our ability to repurchase shares, pay 
dividends and make certain discretionary compensation 
payments. 
The table below presents TLAC and external long-term debt 
requirements. 
As of December
2024
2023
TLAC to RWAs
 22.0% 
 22.0% 
TLAC to leverage exposure
 9.5% 
 9.5% 
External long-term debt to RWAs
 9.0% 
 9.0% 
External long-term debt to leverage exposure
 4.5% 
 4.5% 
In the table above: 
• The TLAC to RWAs requirement included (i) the 18% 
minimum, (ii) the 2.5% buffer, (iii) the countercyclical 
capital buffer, which the FRB has set to zero percent and 
(iv) the 1.5% G-SIB surcharge (Method 1).
• The TLAC to leverage exposure requirement includes (i) 
the 7.5% minimum and (ii) the 2.0% leverage exposure 
buffer.
• The external long-term debt to RWAs requirement 
includes (i) the 6% minimum and (ii) the 3.0% G-SIB 
surcharge (Method 2).
• The external long-term debt to total leverage exposure is 
the 4.5% minimum. 
The table below presents information about our TLAC and 
external long-term debt ratios. 
For the Three Months
Ended or as of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
TLAC
$ 
275,904 $ 
278,188 
External long-term debt
$ 
150,682 $ 
154,300 
RWAs
$ 
688,541 $ 
692,737 
Leverage exposure
$ 2,120,756 $ 1,995,756 
TLAC to RWAs
 40.1% 
 40.2% 
TLAC to leverage exposure
 13.0% 
 13.9% 
External long-term debt to RWAs
 21.9% 
 22.3% 
External long-term debt to leverage exposure
 7.1% 
 7.7% 
In the table above: 
• TLAC includes common and preferred stock, and eligible 
long-term debt issued by Group Inc. Eligible long-term 
debt represents unsecured debt, which has a remaining 
maturity of at least one year and satisfies additional 
requirements. 
• External long-term debt consists of eligible long-term debt 
subject to a haircut if it is due to be paid between one and 
two years. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
90
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• In accordance with the TLAC rules, the higher of 
Standardized or Advanced RWAs are used in the 
calculation of TLAC and external long-term debt ratios 
and applicable requirements. RWAs represent Standardized 
RWAs as of both December 2024 and December 2023.
• Leverage exposure consists of average adjusted total assets 
and certain off-balance sheet exposures.
See “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 
10-K for further information about TLAC. 
Subsidiary Capital Requirements 
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-
dealer subsidiaries, are subject to separate regulation and 
capital requirements of the jurisdictions in which they 
operate.
Bank Subsidiaries. GS Bank USA is our primary U.S. 
banking subsidiary and GSIB and GSBE are our primary non-
U.S. banking subsidiaries. These entities are subject to 
regulatory capital requirements. See Note 20 to the 
consolidated financial statements for further information 
about the regulatory capital requirements for GS Bank USA. 
• GSIB. GSIB is our U.K. bank subsidiary regulated by the 
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). GSIB is subject to the U.K. 
capital framework, which is largely based on the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision’s (Basel Committee) 
capital framework for strengthening international capital 
standards (Basel III). The eligible retail deposits of GSIB 
are covered by the U.K. Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme to the extent provided by law. 
The table below presents GSIB’s risk-based capital 
requirements. 
 
As of December
 
2024
2023
Risk-based capital requirements
 
 
CET1 capital ratio
 11.9% 
 10.1% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 14.7% 
 12.4% 
Total capital ratio
 18.4% 
 15.4% 
The table below presents information about GSIB’s risk-
based capital ratios. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Risk-based capital and risk-weighted assets
 
CET1 capital
$ 
4,336 $ 
3,936 
Tier 1 capital
$ 
4,336 $ 
3,936 
Tier 2 capital
$ 
826 $ 
826 
Total capital
$ 
5,162 $ 
4,762 
RWAs
$ 
17,767 $ 16,546 
Risk-based capital ratios
 
 
CET1 capital ratio
 24.4% 
 23.8% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 24.4% 
 23.8% 
Total capital ratio
 29.1% 
 28.8% 
In the table above, the risk-based capital ratios as of 
December 2024 reflected profits that are still subject to 
annual audit by GSIB’s external auditors and approval by 
GSIB’s Board of Directors for inclusion in risk-based 
capital. These profits contributed 213 basis points to the 
CET1 capital ratio as of December 2024. 
The table below presents GSIB’s leverage ratio requirement 
and leverage ratio.
As of December
2024
2023
Leverage ratio requirement
 3.7% 
 3.6% 
Leverage ratio
 8.9% 
 7.4% 
In the table above, the leverage ratio as of December 2024 
reflected profits that are still subject to annual audit by 
GSIB’s external auditors and approval by GSIB’s Board of 
Directors for inclusion in risk-based capital. These profits 
contributed 87 basis points to the leverage ratio as of 
December 2024.
GSIB is subject to minimum reserve requirements at central 
banks in certain of the jurisdictions in which it operates. As 
of both December 2024 and December 2023, GSIB was in 
compliance with these requirements.
• GSBE. GSBE is our German bank subsidiary supervised by 
the European Central Bank, BaFin and Deutsche 
Bundesbank. GSBE is a non-U.S. banking subsidiary of GS 
Bank USA and is also subject to standalone regulatory 
capital requirements noted below. GSBE is subject to the 
capital requirements prescribed in the amended E.U. 
Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) and E.U. Capital 
Requirements Regulation (CRR), which are largely based 
on Basel III. The deposits of GSBE are covered by the 
German statutory deposit protection program to the extent 
provided by law. In addition, GSBE has elected to 
participate in the German voluntary deposit protection 
program which provides further insurance for certain 
eligible deposits beyond the coverage of the German 
statutory deposit program.
The table below presents GSBE’s risk-based capital 
requirements. 
 
As of December
 
2024
2023
Risk-based capital requirements
 
 
CET1 capital ratio
 10.3% 
 10.0% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 12.3% 
 12.1% 
Total capital ratio
 15.0% 
 14.8% 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
91
The table below presents information about GSBE’s risk-
based capital ratios. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Risk-based capital and risk-weighted assets
 
CET1 capital
$ 
13,871 $ 14,212 
Tier 1 capital
$ 
13,871 $ 14,212 
Tier 2 capital
$ 
21 $ 
22 
Total capital
$ 
13,892 $ 14,234 
RWAs
$ 
43,426 $ 39,797 
Risk-based capital ratios
 
 
CET1 capital ratio
 31.9% 
 35.7% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 31.9% 
 35.7% 
Total capital ratio
 32.0% 
 35.8% 
In the table above, the risk-based capital ratios as of 
December 2024 reflected profits that are still subject to 
annual audit by GSBE’s external auditors and approval by 
GSBE’s shareholder (GS Bank USA) for inclusion in risk-
based capital. These profits contributed 151 basis points to 
the CET1 capital ratio as of December 2024. 
The 
table 
below 
presents 
GSBE’s 
leverage 
ratio 
requirement and leverage ratio. 
 
As of December
 
2024
2023
Leverage ratio requirement
 3.0% 
 3.0% 
Leverage ratio
 9.8% 
 11.4% 
In the table above, the leverage ratio as of December 2024 
reflected profits that are still subject to annual audit by 
GSBE’s external auditors and approval by GSBE’s 
shareholder (GS Bank USA) for inclusion in risk-based 
capital. These profits contributed 54 basis points to the 
leverage ratio as of December 2024.
GSBE is subject to minimum reserve requirements at 
central banks in certain of the jurisdictions in which it 
operates. As of both December 2024 and December 2023, 
GSBE was in compliance with these requirements. 
GSBE is a registered swap dealer with the CFTC and a 
registered security-based swap dealer with the SEC. As of 
both December 2024 and December 2023, GSBE was 
subject to and in compliance with applicable capital 
requirements for swap dealers and security-based swap 
dealers. 
U.S. Regulated Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries. GS&Co., 
our primary U.S. regulated broker-dealer subsidiary, is also a 
registered futures commission merchant and a registered 
swap dealer with the CFTC, and a registered security-based 
swap dealer with the SEC, and therefore is subject to 
regulatory capital requirements imposed by the SEC, the 
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., the CFTC, the 
Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the National Futures 
Association. Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC and Rules 1.17 and Part 
23 Subpart E of the CFTC specify uniform minimum net 
capital requirements, as defined, for their registrants, and 
also effectively require that a significant part of the 
registrants’ assets be kept in relatively liquid form. GS&Co. 
has elected to calculate its SEC minimum capital 
requirements in accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital 
Requirement” as permitted by Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC. 
GS&Co. had regulatory net capital, as defined by Rule 
15c3-1 of the SEC, of $21.31 billion as of December 2024 and 
$20.25  billion as of December 2023, which exceeded the 
greater of the minimum amounts required under Rule 15c3-1 
of the SEC and Rules 1.17 and Part 23 Subpart E of the CFTC 
by $15.87 billion as of December 2024 and $15.07 billion as of 
December 2023. In addition to its alternative minimum net 
capital requirements, GS&Co. is also required to hold 
tentative net capital in excess of $5 billion and net capital in 
excess of $1 billion in accordance with Rule 15c3-1. GS&Co. 
is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its 
tentative net capital is less than $6  billion. As of both 
December 2024 and December 2023, GS&Co. had tentative 
net capital and net capital in excess of both the minimum and 
the notification requirements. 
Non-U.S. Regulated Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries. Our 
principal non-U.S. regulated broker-dealer subsidiaries 
include GSI and GSJCL. 
GSI, our U.K. broker-dealer, is regulated by the PRA and the 
FCA. GSI is subject to the U.K. capital framework, which is 
largely based on Basel III. 
The 
table 
below 
presents 
GSI’s 
risk-based 
capital 
requirements. 
As of December
2024
2023
Risk-based capital requirements
CET1 capital ratio
 9.1% 
 9.1% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 11.0% 
 11.0% 
Total capital ratio
 13.6% 
 13.7% 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
92
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents information about GSI’s risk-based 
capital ratios. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Risk-based capital and risk-weighted assets
CET1 capital
$ 
32,697 $ 
32,403 
Tier 1 capital
$ 
38,197 $ 
37,903 
Tier 2 capital
$ 
6,874 $ 
6,877 
Total capital
$ 
45,071 $ 
44,780 
RWAs
$ 265,944 $ 257,956 
Risk-based capital ratios
CET1 capital ratio
 12.3% 
12.6%
Tier 1 capital ratio
 14.4% 
14.7%
Total capital ratio
 16.9% 
17.4%
In the table above, the risk-based capital ratios as of 
December 2024 reflected profits that are still subject to 
annual audit by GSI's external auditors and approval by 
GSI’s Board of Directors for inclusion in risk-based capital. 
These profits contributed 14 basis points to the CET1 capital 
ratio as of December 2024. 
The table below presents GSI’s leverage ratio requirement 
and leverage ratio.
As of December
2024
2023
Leverage ratio requirement
 3.5% 
 3.5% 
Leverage ratio
 5.3% 
 4.9% 
In the table above, the leverage ratio as of December 2024 
reflected profits that are still subject to annual audit by GSI’s 
external auditors and approval by GSI’s Board of Directors 
for inclusion in risk-based capital. These profits contributed 
3 basis points to the leverage ratio as of December 2024.
GSI is a registered swap dealer with the CFTC and a 
registered security-based swap dealer with the SEC. As of 
both December 2024 and December 2023, GSI was subject to 
and in compliance with applicable capital requirements for 
swap dealers and security-based swap dealers. 
GSJCL, our Japanese broker-dealer, is regulated by Japan’s 
Financial Services Agency. GSJCL and certain other non-U.S. 
subsidiaries are also subject to capital requirements 
promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they 
operate. As of both December 2024 and December 2023, 
these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital 
requirements. 
Regulatory and Other Matters 
Regulatory Matters
Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and 
supervision worldwide. Regulations have been adopted or are 
being considered by regulators and policy makers worldwide. 
Given that many of the new and proposed rules are highly 
complex, the full impact of regulatory reform will not be 
known until the rules are implemented and market practices 
develop under the final regulations. 
See “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 
10-K for further information about the laws, rules and 
regulations and proposed laws, rules and regulations that 
apply to us and our operations. 
Other Matters
Narrowing our Focus on Consumer-Related Activities. 
During 2023 and 2024, we narrowed our focus with respect to 
consumer-related activities by taking the following actions:
• We completed the sale of substantially all of the Marcus 
loan portfolio in 2023 (included within Asset & Wealth 
Management). 
• We sold our PFM business in 2023 (included within Asset 
& Wealth Management).
• We sold the majority of the GreenSky loan portfolio in 
2023 and, during 2024, completed the sale of GreenSky 
(included within Platform Solutions). 
• During 2024, we entered into an agreement to transition 
the GM credit card program (included within Platform 
Solutions) to another issuer. The transition is expected to 
be completed in the third quarter of 2025.
• During 2024, we sold our seller financing loan portfolio 
(included within Platform Solutions). This portfolio 
consisted of loans that were extended to small- and 
medium-sized retailers. 
We remain committed to supporting the products and 
servicing 
customers 
through 
the 
various 
transition 
arrangements for our consumer-related activities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
93
The table below presents the impact to pre-tax earnings of 
the items that we sold or have announced the decision to sell 
(with respect to the narrowing of our focus on consumer-
related activities).  
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Marcus loan portfolio
$ 
– $ 
233 
PFM
 
–  
276 
GreenSky
 
(27)  
(1,227) 
GM credit card program
 
(557)  
(65) 
Seller financing loan portfolio
 
(84)  
(28) 
Total
$ 
(668) $ 
(811) 
In the table above, pre-tax earnings related to GreenSky, the 
GM credit card program and the seller financing loan 
portfolio were included within Platform Solutions and the 
pre-tax earnings related to the Marcus loan portfolio and 
PFM were included within Asset & Wealth Management. 
We have the following remaining consumer-related activities 
within Platform Solutions:
• We issue credit cards to and raise deposits from Apple 
Card customers. 
• We will continue to support existing GM customers and 
issue credit cards to new GM customers until the transition 
of the GM credit card program to another issuer is 
completed. 
Future decisions we may make in connection with the 
narrowing of our focus on consumer-related activities could 
have a material impact on our results of operations in the 
period such decisions are made.
See “Results of Operations — Platform Solutions” for the 
drivers of changes in our net revenues for Consumer 
platforms.
Impact of Los Angeles County Wildfires. In January 
2025, a series of wildfires started in Los Angeles County that 
spread throughout the region. We are in ongoing dialogue 
with key stakeholders to assess the health and safety 
conditions of our office locations and the well-being of our 
employees. We are monitoring the ongoing developments of 
the wildfires and the potential impact on the broader 
economy. As of the date of this filing, the wildfires did not 
have a material impact on our results of operations.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
In the ordinary course of business, we enter into various types 
of off-balance sheet arrangements. Our involvement in these 
arrangements can take many different forms, including: 
• Purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in 
special purpose entities, such as mortgage-backed and 
other asset-backed securitization vehicles; 
• Holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited 
and general partnerships, and preferred and common stock 
in other nonconsolidated vehicles; 
• Entering into interest rate, foreign currency, equity, 
commodity and credit derivatives, including total return 
swaps; and 
• Providing guarantees, indemnifications, commitments, 
letters of credit and representations and warranties. 
We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business 
purposes, 
including 
securitizations. 
The 
securitization 
vehicles that purchase mortgages, corporate bonds and other 
types of financial assets are critical to the functioning of 
several significant investor markets, including the mortgage-
backed and other asset-backed securities markets, since they 
offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created 
through the securitization process. 
We also enter into these arrangements to underwrite client 
securitization 
transactions; 
provide 
secondary 
market 
liquidity; 
make 
investments 
in 
performing 
and 
nonperforming debt, distressed loans, power-related assets, 
equity securities, real estate and other assets; and provide 
investors with credit-linked and asset-repackaged notes. 
The table below presents where information about our 
various off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in this 
Form 10-K. In addition, see Note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements for information about our consolidation 
policies. 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
Disclosure in Form 10-K
 
Variable 
interests 
and 
other 
obligations, 
including 
contingent 
obligations, arising from variable 
interests 
in 
nonconsolidated 
variable interest entities
 
 
See Note 17 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
Guarantees, and lending and other 
commitments
 
 
See Note 18 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
 
Derivatives
 
See 
“Risk 
Management 
— 
Credit Risk Management — 
Credit 
Exposures 
— 
OTC 
Derivatives” and Notes 4, 5, 7 
and 18 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
94
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Risk Management 
Risks are inherent in our businesses and include liquidity, 
market, credit, operational, cybersecurity, model, legal, 
compliance, conduct, regulatory and reputational risks. For 
further information about our risk management processes, 
see “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” and for 
information about our areas of risk, see “Liquidity Risk 
Management,” “Market Risk Management,” “Credit Risk 
Management,” 
“Operational 
Risk 
Management,” 
“Cybersecurity 
Risk 
Management,” 
“Model 
Risk 
Management” and “Other Risk Management,” as well as 
“Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.
Overview and Structure of Risk Management 
Overview 
Effective risk management is critical to our success. 
Accordingly, we have established an enterprise risk 
management framework that employs a comprehensive, 
integrated approach to risk management and is designed to 
enable comprehensive risk management processes through 
which we identify, assess, monitor and manage the risks we 
assume in conducting our activities. Our risk management 
structure is built around three core components: governance, 
processes and people. 
Governance. Risk management governance starts with the 
Board, which both directly and through its committees, 
including its Risk Committee, oversees our approach to 
managing our risks through the enterprise risk management 
framework. The Board is also responsible for the annual 
review and approval of our risk appetite statement. The risk 
appetite statement describes the levels and types of risk we 
are willing to accept or to avoid in order to achieve our 
objectives included in our strategy and business plan, while 
remaining in compliance with regulatory requirements. The 
Board reviews our strategy and business plan and is 
ultimately responsible for overseeing and providing direction 
about our strategy and risk appetite. 
The Board, including through its committees, receives regular 
briefings on firmwide risks, including liquidity risk, market 
risk, credit risk, operational risk, model risk and climate risk, 
from our chief risk officer, on cybersecurity threats and risks 
from our chief information security officer (CISO), on 
compliance risk and conduct risk from our chief compliance 
officer, on legal and regulatory enforcement matters from our 
chief legal officer, and on other matters impacting our 
reputation from the chair and/or vice-chairs of our Firmwide 
Reputational Risk Committee. The chief risk officer reports 
to our chief executive officer and to the Risk Committee of 
the Board. As part of the review of the firmwide risk 
portfolio, the chief risk officer regularly advises the Risk 
Committee of the Board of relevant risk metrics and material 
exposures, including risk limits and thresholds established in 
our risk appetite statement. 
Enterprise Risk, which reports to our chief risk officer, is 
responsible for ensuring that our enterprise risk management 
framework provides the Board, our risk committees and 
senior management with a consistent and integrated 
approach to managing our various risks in a manner 
consistent with our risk appetite. 
Our first line of defense consists of our revenue-producing 
units, 
Conflicts 
Resolution, 
Controllers, 
Engineering, 
Corporate Treasury and certain other corporate functions. 
The first line of defense is responsible for its risk-generating 
activities, as well as for the design and execution of controls 
to mitigate such risks. 
Our Risk and Compliance functions are considered our 
second line of defense and provide independent assessment, 
oversight and challenge of the risks taken by our first line of 
defense, as well as lead and participate in firmwide risk 
committees.  
Internal Audit is considered our third line of defense, and our 
director of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee of 
the Board and administratively to our chief executive officer. 
Internal Audit includes professionals with a broad range of 
audit and industry experience, including risk management 
expertise. Internal Audit is responsible for independently 
assessing and validating the effectiveness of key controls, 
including those within the risk management framework, and 
providing timely reporting to the Audit Committee of the 
Board, senior management and regulators. 
The three lines of defense structure promotes the 
accountability of first line risk takers, provides a framework 
for effective challenge by the second line and empowers 
independent review from the third line. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
95
Processes. We maintain various processes that are critical 
components of our risk management framework, including 
(i) risk identification and assessment, (ii) risk appetite, limits, 
thresholds and alerts, (iii) control monitoring and testing, 
and (iv) risk reporting. 
• Risk Identification and Assessment. We believe the 
identification and assessment of our risks is a critical step 
in 
providing 
our 
Board 
and 
senior 
management 
transparency and insight into the range and materiality of 
our risks. We have a comprehensive data collection 
process, including firmwide policies and procedures that 
require all employees to report and escalate risk events. 
Our approach for risk identification and assessment is 
comprehensive across all risk types, is dynamic and 
forward-looking to reflect and adapt to our changing risk 
profile and business environment, leverages subject matter 
expertise, and allows for prioritization of our most critical 
risks. We perform risk assessments periodically with the 
aim of ensuring that our material financial and 
nonfinancial risks are mitigated through controls to an 
acceptable tolerance level in accordance with our risk 
appetite. Our risk assessments include, among other things, 
the use of stress testing as well as an assessment of our 
internal control processes designed to mitigate such risks.
Firmwide stress testing is an important part of our risk 
management process. It allows us to quantify our exposure 
to tail risks, highlight potential loss concentrations, 
undertake risk/reward analysis, and assess and mitigate our 
risk positions. Firmwide stress tests are performed on a 
regular basis and are designed to ensure a comprehensive 
analysis of our vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks 
combining financial and nonfinancial risks, including, but 
not limited to, credit, market, liquidity and funding, 
operational and compliance, strategic, systemic and 
emerging risks into our stress scenarios. We also perform 
ad hoc stress tests in anticipation of market events or 
conditions. Stress tests are also used to assess capital 
adequacy as part of our capital planning and stress testing 
process. See “Capital Management and Regulatory Capital 
— Capital Management” for further information. 
We maintain a daily discipline of marking substantially all 
of our inventory to current market levels. We carry our 
inventory at fair value, with changes in valuation reflected 
immediately in our risk management systems and in net 
revenues. We do so because we believe this discipline is one 
of the most effective tools for assessing and managing risk 
and that it provides transparent and realistic insight into 
our inventory exposures. 
• Risk Appetite, Limits, Thresholds and Alerts. We 
apply risk limits, thresholds and alerts to control and 
monitor risk across transactions, products, businesses and 
markets. The Board, directly or indirectly through its Risk 
Committee, approves limits, thresholds and alerts included 
in our risk appetite statement at firmwide, business and 
product levels. In addition, the Firmwide Risk Appetite 
Committee, 
through 
delegated 
authority 
from 
the 
Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee, is responsible for 
approving our risk limits, thresholds and alerts policy, 
subject to the overall limits directly or indirectly approved 
by the Board, and monitoring these limits. 
The Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee is responsible for 
approving and monitoring limits at firmwide, business and 
product levels. Certain limits may be set at levels that will 
require periodic adjustment, rather than at levels that 
reflect our maximum risk appetite. This fosters an ongoing 
dialogue about risk among our first and second lines of 
defense, committees and senior management, as well as 
rapid escalation of risk-related matters. The Firmwide Risk 
Appetite Committee also authorizes Risk to set limits and 
thresholds to support monitoring and oversight at a more 
granular level. For example, Market Risk sets limits at 
certain product and desk levels, and Credit Risk sets limits 
for individual counterparties and their subsidiaries, 
industries and countries. Limits are reviewed regularly and 
amended on a permanent or temporary basis to reflect 
changes to our strategic business plan, as well as changing 
market conditions, business conditions or risk tolerance. 
Risks limits are monitored by the respective Risk functions.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
96
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Control Monitoring and Testing. We perform control 
monitoring and testing to measure the effectiveness of our 
key controls and to ensure that we are in compliance with 
policies, codes of conduct, control standards and 
regulatory requirements. Monitoring and testing is 
performed by dedicated teams within the first and second 
lines of defense. These teams establish procedures, develop 
risk-based annual plans, perform control testing and 
escalate identified issues.
Issues identified by the dedicated teams, as well as self-
identified issues by our employees, are assessed for 
appropriate escalation and resolution. Where material or 
thematic issues exist, we develop a plan to remediate them, 
as appropriate, and monitor the remediation activities.  
• Risk Reporting. Effective risk reporting depends on our 
ability to get the right information to the right people at the 
right time. Risk reporting is designed to be both forward- 
and backward-looking and consider detailed information 
on existing and emerging risk exposures. Risk reporting 
may 
include 
stress 
testing 
and 
scenario 
analysis, 
information about the risk profiles for financial and 
nonfinancial risks, utilization of risk limits and thresholds, 
details of new and emerging risks identified through our 
risk identification processes, details of issues, significant 
internal and external events, and information related to the 
effectiveness of our controls and remediation plans. As 
such, we focus on the rigor and effectiveness of our risk 
systems, with the objective of ensuring that our risk 
management technology systems provide us with complete, 
accurate and timely information. Our risk reporting 
process is designed to take into account information about 
both existing and emerging risks, thereby enabling our risk 
committees and senior management to perform their 
responsibilities with the appropriate level of insight into 
risk exposures.
We make extensive use of risk committees and councils 
that meet regularly and serve as an important means to 
facilitate and foster ongoing discussions to manage and 
mitigate risks. 
We maintain strong and proactive communication about 
risk and we have a culture of collaboration in decision-
making among our first and second lines of defense, 
committees and senior management. While our first line of 
defense is accountable and responsible for management of 
their risk, we dedicate extensive resources to our second 
line of defense in order to reinforce the importance of 
having effective oversight and challenge, and a strong 
culture of escalation and accountability across all 
functions. 
People. Even the best technology serves only as a tool for 
helping to make informed decisions in real time about the 
risks we are taking. Ultimately, effective risk management 
requires our people to interpret our risk data on an ongoing 
and timely basis and adjust risk positions accordingly. The 
experience of our professionals, and their understanding of 
the nuances and limitations of each risk measure, guides us in 
assessing exposures and maintaining them within prudent 
levels.
We reinforce a culture of effective risk management, 
consistent with our risk appetite, in our training and 
development programs, as well as in the way we evaluate 
performance, and recognize and reward our people. Our 
training and development programs, including certain 
sessions led by our most senior leaders, are focused on the 
importance of risk management, client relationships and 
reputational excellence. As part of our performance review 
process, we assess reputational excellence, including how an 
employee exercises good risk management and reputational 
judgment, and adheres to our code of conduct and 
compliance policies. Our review and reward processes are 
designed to communicate and reinforce to our professionals 
the link between behavior and how people are recognized, 
the need to focus on our clients and our reputation, and the 
need to always act in accordance with our highest standards. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
97
Structure 
Ultimate oversight of risk is the responsibility of our Board. 
The Board oversees risk both directly and through its 
committees, including its Risk Committee. We also have a 
series of committees that generally consist of senior 
managers, including from both our first and second lines of 
defense, with specific risk management mandates that have 
oversight or decision-making responsibilities for risk 
management activities. We have an established policy for 
these committees so that appropriate information barriers are 
in place. Our primary risk committees, most of which also 
have additional sub-committees, councils or working groups, 
are described below. In addition to these committees, we 
have other risk committees that provide oversight for 
different businesses, activities, products, regions and entities. 
All of our committees have responsibility for considering the 
impact on our reputation of the transactions and activities 
that they oversee. 
Membership of our risk committees is reviewed regularly and 
updated to reflect changes in the responsibilities of the 
committee members. Accordingly, the length of time that 
members serve on the respective committees varies as 
determined by the committee chairs and based on the 
responsibilities of the members. 
The chart below presents an overview of our risk 
management governance structure. 
Management Committee. The Management Committee 
oversees our global activities. It provides this oversight 
directly and through delegated authority. This committee 
consists of our most senior leaders, and is chaired by our 
chief executive officer. Most members of the Management 
Committee are also members of other committees. The 
following are the committees that are principally involved in 
firmwide risk management. 
Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The Firmwide 
Enterprise Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing all of 
our financial and nonfinancial risks. As part of such 
oversight, the committee is responsible for the ongoing 
review, approval and monitoring of our enterprise risk 
management framework, as well as our risk limits, and 
thresholds and alerts policy, through delegated authority to 
the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. The Firmwide 
Enterprise Risk Committee also reviews new significant 
strategic business initiatives to determine whether they are 
consistent with our risk appetite and risk management 
capabilities. Additionally, the Firmwide Enterprise Risk 
Committee performs enhanced reviews of significant risk 
events, the top residual and emerging risks, and the overall 
risk and control environment in each of our business units in 
order to propose uplifts, identify elements that are common 
to all business units and analyze the consolidated residual 
risks that we face. This committee, which reports to the 
Management Committee, is co-chaired by our president and 
chief operating officer and our chief risk officer, who are 
appointed as chairs by our chief executive officer, and the 
vice-chair is our chief financial officer, who is appointed as 
vice-chair by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk 
Committee. The Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee also 
periodically provides updates to, and receives guidance from, 
the Risk Committee of the Board. The following are the 
primary committees that report to the Firmwide Enterprise 
Risk Committee: 
• Firmwide New Activity Committee. The Firmwide 
New Activity Committee is responsible for reviewing new 
activities and, upon referral by the Firmwide Enterprise 
Risk Committee, significant strategic business initiatives. 
Additionally, the Firmwide New Activity Committee may 
review previously approved activities that are significant 
and/or that have changed in complexity and/or structure or 
present different reputational and suitability concerns over 
time 
to 
consider 
whether 
these 
activities 
remain 
appropriate. This committee is chaired by our controller 
and chief accounting officer, who is appointed as chair by 
the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. 
• Firmwide Technology Risk Committee. The Firmwide 
Technology Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing 
matters related to the design, development, deployment 
and 
use 
of 
technology. 
This 
committee 
oversees 
cybersecurity matters, as well as technology risk 
management 
frameworks 
and 
methodologies, 
and 
monitors their effectiveness. This committee is co-chaired 
by our CISO and our chief technology officer, who are 
appointed as chairs by the chairs of the Firmwide 
Enterprise Risk Committee. To assist the Firmwide 
Technology Risk Committee in carrying out its mandate, 
the Firmwide Artificial Intelligence Risk and Controls 
Committee, which oversees risks associated with the use of 
AI, reports to the Firmwide Technology Risk Committee. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
98
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Firmwide 
Compliance 
and 
Operational 
Risk 
Committee. The Firmwide Compliance and Operational 
Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing compliance 
and operational risk. This committee is co-chaired by our 
chief administrative officer for EMEA, our head of 
Operational Risk, and our chief compliance officer, who 
are appointed as chairs by the chairs of the Firmwide 
Enterprise Risk Committee. 
• Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. The Firmwide 
Risk Appetite Committee (through delegated authority 
from the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee) is 
responsible for the ongoing approval and monitoring of 
risk frameworks, policies and parameters related to our 
risk management processes, as well as limits, thresholds 
and alerts, at firmwide, business and product levels. In 
addition, this committee is responsible for overseeing our 
financial and model risks and reviews the results of stress 
tests and scenario analyses. To assist the Firmwide Risk 
Appetite Committee in carrying out its mandate, a number 
of other risk committees with dedicated oversight for stress 
testing, model risks, Volcker Rule compliance, as well as 
our investments or other capital commitments that may 
give rise to financial risk, report into the Firmwide Risk 
Appetite Committee. This committee is chaired by our 
chief risk officer, who is appointed as chair by the chairs of 
the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The Firmwide 
Capital 
Committee 
and 
Firmwide 
Commitments 
Committee report to the Firmwide Risk Appetite 
Committee.
• Firmwide 
Reputational 
Risk 
Committee. 
The 
Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee is responsible for 
assessing reputational risks arising from opportunities that 
have been identified as having potential heightened 
reputational 
risk, 
including 
transactions 
identified 
pursuant to the criteria established by the Firmwide 
Reputational Risk Committee and as determined by 
committee leadership. This committee is also responsible 
for overseeing client-related business standards and 
addressing client-related reputational risk. This committee 
is chaired by our president and chief operating officer, who 
is appointed as chair by our chief executive officer, and the 
vice-chairs are our chief legal officer and the head of 
Conflicts Resolution, who are appointed as vice-chairs by 
the chair of the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee. 
This committee periodically provides updates to, and 
receives guidance from, the Public Responsibilities 
Committee of the Board. The Firmwide Suitability 
Committee reports to the Firmwide Reputational Risk 
Committee.
• Firmwide Data Governance Committee. The Firmwide 
Data Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing 
the firmwide data governance framework, and its 
implementation, to help ensure that data governance and 
data quality are appropriate. This committee is co-chaired 
by our chief information officer and our chief risk officer, 
who are appointed as chairs by the chairs of the Firmwide 
Enterprise Risk Committee.
Firmwide Asset Liability Committee. The Firmwide 
Asset Liability Committee reviews and approves the strategic 
direction for our financial resources, including capital, 
liquidity, funding and balance sheet. This committee has 
oversight responsibility for asset liability management, 
including interest rate and currency risk, funds transfer 
pricing, capital allocation and incentives, and credit ratings. 
This committee makes recommendations as to any 
adjustments to asset liability management and financial 
resource allocation in light of current events, risks, 
exposures, and regulatory requirements and approves related 
policies. This committee is co-chaired by our chief financial 
officer and our global treasurer, who are appointed as chairs 
by our chief executive officer, and reports to the 
Management Committee. 
Liquidity Risk Management 
Overview 
Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable to fund 
ourselves or meet our liquidity needs in the event of firm-
specific, broader industry or market liquidity stress events. 
We have in place a comprehensive and conservative set of 
liquidity and funding policies. Our principal objective is to be 
able to fund ourselves and to enable our core businesses to 
continue to serve clients and generate revenues, even under 
adverse circumstances. 
Corporate Treasury is responsible for our liquidity, including 
developing and executing our liquidity and funding strategy. 
Liquidity Risk, which is part of our second line of defense 
and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary 
responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing our 
liquidity risk by providing independent firmwide oversight 
and challenge across our global businesses. Liquidity Risk is 
also responsible for the establishment of stress testing and 
limits frameworks. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
99
Liquidity Risk Management Principles 
We manage liquidity risk according to three principles: (i) 
hold sufficient excess liquidity in the form of GCLA to cover 
outflows during a stressed period, (ii) maintain appropriate 
Asset-Liability Management and (iii) maintain a viable 
Contingency Funding Plan. 
GCLA. GCLA is liquidity that we maintain to meet a broad 
range of potential cash outflows and collateral needs in a 
stressed environment. A primary liquidity principle is to pre-
fund our estimated potential cash and collateral needs during 
a liquidity crisis and hold this liquidity in the form of 
unencumbered, highly liquid securities and cash. We believe 
that the securities held in our GCLA would be readily 
convertible to cash in a matter of days, through liquidation, 
by entering into repurchase agreements or from maturities of 
resale agreements, and that this cash would allow us to meet 
immediate obligations without needing to sell other assets or 
depend on additional funding from credit-sensitive markets. 
Our GCLA reflects the following principles: 
• The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most 
critical to a company’s survival; 
• Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and 
collateral outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. 
Our businesses are diverse, and our liquidity needs are 
determined by many factors, including market movements, 
collateral requirements and client commitments, all of 
which can change dramatically in a difficult funding 
environment; 
• During a liquidity crisis, credit-sensitive funding, including 
unsecured debt, certain deposits and some types of secured 
financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms 
(e.g., interest rates, collateral provisions and tenor) or 
availability of other types of secured financing may change 
and certain deposits may be withdrawn; and 
• As a result of our policy to pre-fund liquidity that we 
estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold more 
unencumbered securities and have larger funding balances 
than our businesses would otherwise require. We believe 
that our liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly 
liquid unencumbered securities, even though it increases 
our total assets and our funding costs. 
We maintain our GCLA across Group Inc., Goldman Sachs 
Funding LLC (Funding IHC) and Group Inc.’s major broker-
dealer and bank subsidiaries, asset types and clearing agents 
with the goal of providing us with sufficient operating 
liquidity to ensure timely settlement in all major markets, 
even in a difficult funding environment. In addition to the 
GCLA, we maintain cash balances and securities in several of 
our other entities, primarily for use in specific currencies, 
entities or jurisdictions where we do not have immediate 
access to parent company liquidity. 
Asset-Liability 
Management. 
Our 
liquidity 
risk 
management policies are designed to ensure we have a 
sufficient amount of financing, even when funding markets 
experience persistent stress. We manage the maturities and 
diversity of our funding across markets, products and 
counterparties, and seek to maintain a diversified funding 
profile with an appropriate tenor, taking into consideration 
the characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets. 
Our approach to asset-liability management includes: 
• Conservatively managing the overall characteristics of our 
funding book, with a focus on maintaining long-term, 
diversified sources of funding in excess of our current 
requirements. See “Balance Sheet and Funding Sources — 
Funding Sources” for further information; 
• Actively managing and monitoring our asset base, with 
particular focus on the liquidity, holding period and ability 
to fund assets on a secured basis. We assess our funding 
requirements and our ability to liquidate assets in a stressed 
environment while appropriately managing risk. This 
enables us to determine the most appropriate funding 
products and tenors. See “Balance Sheet and Funding 
Sources — Balance Sheet Management” for further 
information about our balance sheet management process 
and “— Funding Sources — Secured Funding” for further 
information about asset classes that may be harder to fund 
on a secured basis; and 
• Raising secured and unsecured financing that has a long 
tenor relative to the liquidity profile of our assets. This 
reduces the risk that our liabilities will come due in 
advance of our ability to generate liquidity from the sale of 
our assets. Because we maintain a highly liquid balance 
sheet, the holding period of certain of our assets may be 
materially shorter than their contractual maturity dates. 
Our goal is to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquidity to 
fund our assets and meet our contractual and contingent 
obligations in normal times, as well as during periods of 
market stress. Through our dynamic balance sheet 
management process, we use actual and projected asset 
balances to determine secured and unsecured funding 
requirements. Funding plans are reviewed and approved by 
the Firmwide Asset Liability Committee. In addition, Risk 
and the Firmwide Asset Liability Committee review our total 
unsecured long-term borrowings and total shareholders’ 
equity to help ensure that we maintain a level of long-term 
funding that is sufficient to meet our long-term financing 
requirements. In a liquidity crisis, we would begin by 
liquidating and monetizing our GCLA before selling other 
assets. However, we recognize that orderly asset sales may be 
prudent or necessary in a severe or persistent liquidity crisis.  
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
100
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Subsidiary Funding Policies 
The majority of our unsecured borrowings is raised by Group 
Inc., which provides the necessary funds to Funding IHC and 
other subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their 
asset financing, liquidity and capital requirements. In 
addition, Group Inc. provides its regulated subsidiaries with 
the necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. 
The benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding are 
enhanced control and greater flexibility to meet the funding 
requirements of our subsidiaries. Funding is also raised at the 
subsidiary level through a variety of products, including 
deposits, secured funding and unsecured borrowings. 
Our intercompany funding policies assume that a subsidiary’s 
funds or securities are not freely available to its parent, 
Funding IHC or other subsidiaries unless (i) legally provided 
for and (ii) there are no additional regulatory, tax or other 
restrictions. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are 
subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or 
reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group 
Inc. or Funding IHC. Regulatory action of that kind could 
impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make 
payments on its obligations. Accordingly, we assume that the 
capital provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available 
to Group Inc. or other subsidiaries and any other financing 
provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to 
Group Inc. or Funding IHC until the maturity of such 
financing. 
Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and 
subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its 
regulated subsidiaries. For example, as of December 2024, 
Group Inc. had $38.69  billion of equity and subordinated 
indebtedness invested in GS&Co., its principal U.S. 
registered broker-dealer; $47.21  billion invested in GSI, a 
regulated U.K. broker-dealer; $2.08  billion invested in 
GSJCL, a regulated Japanese broker-dealer; $62.81  billion 
invested in GS Bank USA, a regulated New York State-
chartered bank; and $5.30  billion invested in GSIB, a 
regulated U.K. bank. Group Inc. also provides financing, 
directly or indirectly, in the form of: $131.82  billion of 
unsubordinated 
loans 
(including 
secured 
loans 
of 
$59.97  billion) and $32.92  billion of collateral and cash 
deposits to these entities as of December 2024. In addition, as 
of December 2024, Group Inc. had significant amounts of 
capital invested in and loans to its other regulated 
subsidiaries. 
Contingency Funding Plan. We maintain a contingency 
funding plan to provide a framework for analyzing and 
responding to a liquidity crisis situation or periods of market 
stress. Our contingency funding plan outlines a list of 
potential risk factors, key reports and metrics that are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis to assist in assessing the 
severity of, and managing through, a liquidity crisis and/or 
market dislocation. The contingency funding plan also 
describes in detail our potential responses if our assessments 
indicate that we have entered a liquidity crisis, which include 
pre-funding for what we estimate will be our potential cash 
and collateral needs, as well as utilizing secondary sources of 
liquidity. Mitigants and action items to address specific risks 
which may arise are also described and assigned to 
individuals responsible for execution. 
The contingency funding plan identifies key groups of 
individuals and their responsibilities, which include fostering 
effective 
coordination, 
control 
and 
distribution 
of 
information, implementing liquidity maintenance activities 
and managing internal and external communication, all of 
which are critical in the management of a crisis or period of 
market stress. 
Stress Tests 
In order to determine the appropriate size of our GCLA, we 
model liquidity outflows over a range of scenarios and time 
horizons. One of our primary internal liquidity risk models, 
referred to as the Modeled Liquidity Outflow, quantifies our 
liquidity risks over a 30-day stress scenario. We also consider 
other factors, including, but not limited to, an assessment of 
our potential intraday liquidity needs through an additional 
internal liquidity risk model, referred to as the Intraday 
Liquidity Model, the results of our long-term stress testing 
models, our resolution liquidity models and other applicable 
regulatory requirements and a qualitative assessment of our 
condition, as well as the financial markets. The results of the 
Modeled Liquidity Outflow, the Intraday Liquidity Model, 
the long-term stress testing models and the resolution 
liquidity models are reported to senior management on a 
regular basis. We also perform firmwide stress tests. See 
“Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for 
information about firmwide stress tests. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
101
Modeled Liquidity Outflow. Our Modeled Liquidity 
Outflow is based on conducting multiple scenarios that 
include combinations of market-wide and firm-specific stress. 
These scenarios are characterized by the following qualitative 
elements: 
• Severely challenged market environments, which include 
low consumer and corporate confidence, financial and 
political instability, and adverse changes in market values, 
including potential declines in equity markets and widening 
of credit spreads; and 
• A firm-specific crisis potentially triggered by material 
losses, reputational damage (including, as a result of, the 
dissemination of negative information through social 
media), litigation and/or a ratings downgrade. 
The following are key modeling elements of our Modeled 
Liquidity Outflow: 
• Liquidity needs over a 30-day scenario; 
• A two-notch downgrade of our long-term senior unsecured 
credit ratings; 
• Changing conditions in funding markets, which limit our 
access to unsecured and secured funding; 
• No support from additional government funding facilities. 
Although we have access to various central bank funding 
programs, we do not assume reliance on additional sources 
of funding in a liquidity crisis; and 
• A combination of contractual outflows and contingent 
outflows arising from both our on- and off-balance sheet 
arrangements. Contractual outflows include, among other 
things, upcoming maturities of unsecured debt, term 
deposits and secured funding. Contingent outflows include, 
among other things, the withdrawal of customer credit 
balances in our prime brokerage business, increase in 
variation margin requirements due to adverse changes in 
the value of our exchange-traded and OTC-cleared 
derivatives, draws on unfunded commitments and 
withdrawals of deposits that have no contractual maturity. 
See notes to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about contractual outflows, including 
Note 11 for collateralized financings, Note 13 for deposits, 
Note 14 for unsecured long-term borrowings and Note 15 
for operating lease payments, and “Off-Balance Sheet 
Arrangements” for further information about our various 
types of off-balance sheet arrangements. 
Intraday Liquidity Model. Our Intraday Liquidity Model 
measures our intraday liquidity needs in a scenario where 
access to sources of intraday liquidity may become 
constrained. The intraday liquidity model considers a variety 
of factors, including historical settlement activity. 
Long-Term Stress Testing. We utilize longer-term stress 
tests to take a forward view on our liquidity position through 
prolonged stress periods in which we experience a severe 
liquidity stress and recover in an environment that continues 
to be challenging. We are focused on ensuring conservative 
asset-liability management to prepare for a prolonged period 
of potential stress, seeking to maintain a diversified funding 
profile with an appropriate tenor, taking into consideration 
the characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets. 
Resolution Liquidity Models. In connection with our 
resolution planning efforts, we have established our 
Resolution Liquidity Adequacy and Positioning framework, 
which estimates liquidity needs of our major subsidiaries in a 
stressed environment. The liquidity needs are measured using 
our Modeled Liquidity Outflow assumptions and include 
certain additional inter-affiliate exposures. We have also 
established our Resolution Liquidity Execution Need 
framework, which measures the liquidity needs of our major 
subsidiaries to stabilize and wind down following a Group 
Inc. bankruptcy filing in accordance with our preferred 
resolution strategy. 
In addition, we have established a triggers and alerts 
framework, which is designed to provide the Board with 
information needed to make an informed decision on 
whether and when to commence bankruptcy proceedings for 
Group Inc. 
Limits 
We use liquidity risk limits at various levels and across 
liquidity risk types to manage the size of our liquidity 
exposures. Limits are measured relative to acceptable levels 
of risk given our liquidity risk tolerance. See “Overview and 
Structure of Risk Management” for information about the 
limit approval process. 
Limits are monitored by Corporate Treasury and Liquidity 
Risk. Liquidity Risk is responsible for identifying and 
escalating to senior management and/or the appropriate risk 
committee, on a timely basis, instances where limits have 
been exceeded. 
GCLA and Unencumbered Metrics 
GCLA. Based on the results of our internal liquidity risk 
models, described above, as well as our consideration of 
other factors, including, but not limited to, a qualitative 
assessment of our condition, as well as the financial markets, 
we believe our liquidity position as of both December 2024 
and December 2023 was appropriate. We strictly limit our 
GCLA to a narrowly defined list of securities and cash 
because they are highly liquid, even in a difficult funding 
environment. We do not include other potential sources of 
excess liquidity in our GCLA, such as less liquid 
unencumbered securities or committed credit facilities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
102
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents information about our GCLA. 
Average for the
Three Months
Year Ended
Ended December
December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2024
2023
Denomination
U.S. dollar
$ 311,839 $ 282,414 
$ 300,535 $ 282,307 
Non-U.S. dollar
 110,252  131,176 
 128,645  124,691 
Total
$ 422,091 $ 413,590 
$ 429,180 $ 406,998 
Asset Class
Overnight cash deposits
$ 143,563 $ 204,929 
$ 184,370 $ 231,066 
U.S. government obligations
 177,721  150,806 
 163,983  133,000 
U.S. agency obligations
 
46,979  
22,895 
 
32,102  
16,387 
Non-U.S. government obligations
 
53,828  
34,960 
 
48,725  
26,545 
Total
$ 422,091 $ 413,590 
$ 429,180 $ 406,998 
Entity Type
Group Inc. and Funding IHC
$ 60,609 $ 65,952 
$ 65,965 $ 66,803 
Major broker-dealer subsidiaries  113,996  117,818 
 117,204  114,824 
Major bank subsidiaries
 247,486  229,820 
 246,011  225,371 
Total
$ 422,091 $ 413,590 
$ 429,180 $ 406,998 
In the table above: 
• The U.S. dollar-denominated GCLA consists of (i) 
unencumbered U.S. government and agency obligations 
(including highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage-backed 
obligations), all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal 
Reserve open market operations and (ii) certain overnight 
U.S. dollar cash deposits. 
• The non-U.S. dollar-denominated GCLA consists of non-
U.S. government obligations (only unencumbered German, 
French, Japanese and U.K. government obligations) and 
certain overnight cash deposits in highly liquid currencies. 
We maintain our GCLA to enable us to meet current and 
potential liquidity requirements of our parent company, 
Group Inc., and its subsidiaries. Our Modeled Liquidity 
Outflow and Intraday Liquidity Model incorporate a 
requirement for Group Inc., as well as a standalone 
requirement for each of our major broker-dealer and bank 
subsidiaries. Funding IHC is required to provide the 
necessary liquidity to Group Inc. during the ordinary course 
of business, and is also obligated to provide capital and 
liquidity support to major subsidiaries in the event of our 
material financial distress or failure. Liquidity held directly in 
each of our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries is 
intended for use only by that subsidiary to meet its liquidity 
requirements and is assumed not to be available to Group 
Inc. or Funding IHC unless (i) legally provided for and (ii) 
there are no additional regulatory, tax or other restrictions. 
In addition, the Modeled Liquidity Outflow and Intraday 
Liquidity Model also incorporate a broader assessment of 
standalone liquidity requirements for other subsidiaries and 
we hold a portion of our GCLA directly at Group Inc. or 
Funding IHC to support such requirements. 
Other Unencumbered Assets. In addition to our GCLA, 
we have a significant amount of other unencumbered cash 
and financial instruments, including other government 
obligations, high-grade money market securities, corporate 
obligations, marginable equities, loans and cash deposits not 
included in our GCLA. The fair value of our unencumbered 
assets averaged $295.49 billion for the three months ended 
December 2024, $286.51 billion for the three months ended 
December 2023, $292.22 billion for the year ended December 
2024 and $281.95 billion for the year ended December 2023. 
We do not consider these assets liquid enough to be eligible 
for our GCLA. 
Liquidity Regulatory Framework 
We are subject to a minimum Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
(LCR) under the LCR rule approved by the U.S. federal bank 
regulatory agencies. The LCR rule requires organizations to 
maintain an adequate ratio of eligible high-quality liquid 
assets (HQLA) to expected net cash outflows under an acute, 
short-term liquidity stress scenario. Eligible HQLA excludes 
HQLA held by subsidiaries that is in excess of their minimum 
requirement and is subject to transfer restrictions. We are 
required to maintain a minimum LCR of 100%. We expect 
that fluctuations in client activity, business mix and the 
market environment will impact our LCR. 
The table below presents information about our average 
daily LCR. 
Average for the
Three Months Ended
December
September
December
$ in millions
2024
2024
2023
Total HQLA
$ 407,348 
$ 434,256 
$ 401,721 
Eligible HQLA
$ 352,494 
$ 369,119 
$ 326,181 
Net cash outflows
$ 279,368 
$ 277,825 
$ 255,106 
LCR
 126% 
 133% 
 128% 
In the table above, our average quarterly LCR represents the 
average of our daily LCRs during the quarter. 
We are also subject to a minimum Net Stable Funding Ratio 
(NSFR) under the NSFR rule approved by the U.S. federal 
bank regulatory agencies. The NSFR rule requires large U.S. 
banking organizations to maintain available stable funding 
(ASF) above their required stable funding (RSF) over a one-
year time horizon. Total ASF excludes ASF held by 
subsidiaries that is in excess of their minimum requirement 
and is subject to transfer restrictions. We are required to 
maintain a minimum NSFR of 100%. We expect that 
fluctuations in client activity, business mix and the market 
environment will impact our NSFR.  
The table below presents information about our average 
daily NSFR. 
Average for the
Three Months Ended
December
September
December
$ in millions
2024
2024
2023
Total ASF
$ 692,474 
$ 673,860 
$ 628,734 
Total RSF
$ 595,352 
$ 577,525 
$ 542,089 
NSFR
 116% 
 117% 
 116% 
In the table above, our average quarterly NSFR represents the 
average of our daily NSFRs during the quarter. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
103
The following provides information about our subsidiary 
liquidity regulatory requirements: 
• GS Bank USA. GS Bank USA is subject to a minimum 
LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the U.S. 
federal bank regulatory agencies. As of December 2024, GS 
Bank USA’s LCR exceeded the minimum requirement. The 
NSFR requirement described above also applies to GS 
Bank USA. As of December 2024, GS Bank USA’s NSFR 
exceeded the minimum requirement. 
• GSI and GSIB. GSI and GSIB are subject to a minimum 
LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the U.K. 
regulatory authorities. GSI’s and GSIB’s average monthly 
LCR for the trailing twelve-month period ended December 
2024 exceeded the minimum requirement. GSI and GSIB 
are subject to the applicable NSFR requirement in the U.K. 
As of December 2024, both GSI’s and GSIB’s NSFR 
exceeded the minimum requirement. 
• GSBE. GSBE is subject to a minimum LCR of 100% under 
the LCR rule approved by the European Parliament and 
Council. GSBE’s average monthly LCR for the trailing 
twelve-month period ended December 2024 exceeded the 
minimum requirement. GSBE is subject to the applicable 
NSFR requirement in the E.U. As of December 2024, 
GSBE’s NSFR exceeded the minimum requirement. 
• Other Subsidiaries. We monitor local regulatory 
liquidity requirements of our subsidiaries to ensure 
compliance. 
For 
many 
of 
our 
subsidiaries, 
these 
requirements either have changed or are likely to change in 
the future due to the implementation of the Basel 
Committee’s framework for liquidity risk measurement, 
standards and monitoring, as well as other regulatory 
developments. 
The implementation of these rules and any amendments 
adopted by the regulatory authorities could impact our 
liquidity and funding requirements and practices in the 
future. 
Credit Ratings 
We rely on the short- and long-term debt capital markets to 
fund a significant portion of our day-to-day operations, and 
the cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our 
credit ratings. Credit ratings are also important when we are 
competing in certain markets, such as OTC derivatives, and 
when we seek to engage in longer-term transactions. See 
“Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for 
information about the risks associated with a reduction in 
our credit ratings. 
The table below presents the unsecured credit ratings and 
outlook of Group Inc. 
As of December 2024
DBRS
Fitch
Moody’s
R&I
S&P
Short-term debt
R-1 (middle)
F1
P-1
a-1
A-2
Long-term debt
A (high)
A
A2
A
BBB+
Subordinated debt
A
BBB+
Baa2
A-
BBB
Trust preferred
A
BBB-
Baa3
N/A
BB+
Preferred stock
BBB (high)
BBB-
Ba1
N/A
BB+
Ratings outlook
Stable
Stable
Stable
Stable
Stable
In the table above: 
• The ratings and outlook are by DBRS, Inc. (DBRS), Fitch, 
Inc. (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s), Rating 
and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), and Standard & 
Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P). 
• The ratings for trust preferred relate to the guaranteed 
preferred beneficial interests issued by Goldman Sachs 
Capital I. 
• The DBRS, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P ratings for preferred 
stock include the APEX issued by Goldman Sachs Capital 
II and Goldman Sachs Capital III. 
The table below presents the unsecured credit ratings and 
outlook of GS Bank USA, GSIB, GSBE, GS&Co. and GSI. 
As of December 2024
Fitch
Moody’s
S&P
GS Bank USA
Short-term debt
F1
P-1
A-1
Long-term debt
A+
A1
A+
Short-term bank deposits
F1+
P-1
N/A
Long-term bank deposits
AA-
A1
N/A
Ratings outlook
Stable
Stable
Stable
GSIB
Short-term debt
F1
P-1
A-1
Long-term debt
A+
A1
A+
Short-term bank deposits
F1
P-1
N/A
Long-term bank deposits
A+
A1
N/A
Ratings outlook
Stable
Stable
Stable
GSBE
Short-term debt
F1
P-1
A-1
Long-term debt
A+
A1
A+
Short-term bank deposits
N/A
P-1
N/A
Long-term bank deposits
N/A
A1
N/A
Ratings outlook
Stable
Stable
Stable
GS&Co.
Short-term debt
F1
N/A
A-1
Long-term debt
A+
N/A
A+
Ratings outlook
Stable
N/A
Stable
GSI
Short-term debt
F1
P-1
A-1
Long-term debt
A+
A1
A+
Ratings outlook
Stable
Stable
Stable
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
104
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the 
credit rating agencies’ assessment of: 
• Our liquidity, market, credit and operational risk 
management practices;
• Our level and variability of earnings;
• Our capital base; 
• Our franchise, reputation and management; 
• Our corporate governance; and 
• The external operating and economic environment, 
including, in some cases, the assumed level of government 
support or other systemic considerations, such as potential 
resolution. 
Certain of our derivatives have been transacted under 
bilateral agreements with counterparties who may require us 
to post collateral or terminate the transactions based on 
changes in our credit ratings. We manage our GCLA to 
ensure we would, among other potential requirements, be 
able to make the additional collateral or termination 
payments that may be required in the event of a two-notch 
reduction in our long-term credit ratings, as well as collateral 
that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to 
them. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about derivatives with credit-related 
contingent features and the additional collateral or 
termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities 
under bilateral agreements that could have been called by 
counterparties in the event of a one- or two-notch downgrade 
in our credit ratings. 
Cash Flows 
As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex 
and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets. 
Consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis 
is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the 
liquidity and asset-liability management policies described 
above. Cash flow analysis may, however, be helpful in 
highlighting certain macro trends and strategic initiatives in 
our businesses. 
Year Ended December 2024. Our cash and cash 
equivalents decreased by $59.49 billion to $182.09 billion at 
the end of 2024, primarily due to net cash used for investing 
activities and operating activities, partially offset by financing 
activities. The net cash used for investing activities primarily 
reflected net purchases of U.S. government obligations 
accounted for as available-for-sale securities and an increase 
in net lending activities (reflecting increases in other 
collateralized loans). The net cash used for operating 
activities primarily reflected cash outflows from trading 
assets, partially offset by cash inflows from collateralized 
transactions (reflecting both an increase in collateralized 
financings and a decrease in collateralized agreements). The 
net cash provided by financing activities primarily reflected 
cash inflows from other secured financings and deposits 
(reflecting increases in consumer deposits, partially offset by 
decreases in transaction banking deposits and other deposits), 
partially offset by common stock repurchases and net 
repayments of unsecured long-term borrowings. 
Year Ended December 2023. Our cash and cash 
equivalents decreased by $248 million to $241.58 billion at 
the end of 2023, due to net cash used for investing and 
operating activities, partially offset by net cash provided by 
financing activities and the effect of exchange rate changes on 
cash and cash equivalents. The net cash used for investing 
activities 
primarily 
reflected 
net 
purchases 
of 
U.S. 
government obligations accounted for as held-to-maturity 
securities. The net cash used for operating activities primarily 
reflected cash outflows from trading assets and customer and 
other receivables and payables, net (reflecting a decrease in 
customer and other payables, partially offset by a decrease in 
customer and other receivables), partially offset by cash 
inflows from collateralized transactions (reflecting an 
increase in collateralized financings, partially offset by an 
increase in collateralized agreements), net earnings and 
trading liabilities. The net cash provided by financing 
activities primarily reflected cash inflows from deposits 
(reflecting 
increases 
in 
consumer 
deposits, 
brokered 
certificates of deposit and other deposits, partially offset by 
decreases in deposits sweep program balances and private 
bank deposits), partially offset by net repayments of 
unsecured long-term borrowings. The increase in cash and 
cash equivalents as a result of changes in foreign exchange 
rates was due to the U.S. dollar weakening during 2023. 
For an analysis of cash flows for the year ended December 
2022, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” 
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
105
Market Risk Management 
Overview 
Market risk is the risk of an adverse impact to our earnings 
due to changes in market conditions. Our assets and 
liabilities that give rise to market risk primarily include 
positions held for market making for our clients and for our 
investing and financing activities, and these positions change 
based on client demands and our investment opportunities. 
We employ a variety of risk measures, each described in the 
respective sections below, to monitor market risk. Categories 
of market risk include the following: 
• Interest rate risk: results from exposures to changes in the 
level, slope and curvature of yield curves, the volatilities of 
interest rates, prepayment speeds and credit spreads;
• Equity price risk: results from exposures to changes in 
prices and volatilities of individual equities, baskets of 
equities and equity indices; 
• Currency rate risk: results from exposures to changes in 
spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency 
rates; and 
• Commodity price risk: results from exposures to changes in 
spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, 
such as crude oil, petroleum products, natural gas, 
electricity, and precious and base metals. 
Market Risk, which is part of our second line of defense and 
reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for 
assessing, monitoring and managing our market risk by 
providing independent firmwide oversight and challenge 
across our global businesses. 
Managers in revenue-producing units, Corporate Treasury 
and Market Risk discuss market information, positions and 
estimated loss scenarios on an ongoing basis. Managers in 
revenue-producing units and Corporate Treasury are 
accountable for managing risk within prescribed limits. 
These managers have in-depth knowledge of their positions, 
markets and the instruments available to hedge their 
exposures. 
Market Risk Management Process 
Our process for managing market risk includes the critical 
components of our risk management framework described in 
the “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” as well 
as the following: 
• Monitoring compliance with established market risk limits 
and reporting our exposures; 
• Diversifying exposures; 
• Controlling position sizes; and 
• Evaluating mitigants, such as economic hedges in related 
securities or derivatives. 
Our market risk management systems enable us to perform 
an independent calculation of Value-at-Risk (VaR), Earnings-
at-Risk (EaR) and other stress measures, capture risk 
measures at individual position levels, attribute risk measures 
to individual risk factors of each position, report many 
different views of the risk measures (e.g., by desk, business, 
product type or entity) and produce ad hoc analyses in a 
timely manner. 
Risk Measures 
We produce risk measures and monitor them against 
established market risk limits. These measures reflect an 
extensive range of scenarios and the results are aggregated at 
product, business and firmwide levels. 
We use a variety of risk measures to estimate the size of 
potential losses for small, moderate and more extreme 
market moves over both short- and long-term time horizons. 
Our primary risk measures are VaR, EaR and other stress 
tests. 
Our risk reports detail key risks, drivers and changes for each 
desk and business, and are distributed daily to senior 
management of both our revenue-producing units and Risk. 
Value-at-Risk. VaR is the potential loss in value due to 
adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with 
a specified confidence level. For assets and liabilities included 
in VaR, see “Financial Statement Linkages to Market Risk 
Measures.” We typically employ a one-day time horizon with 
a 95% confidence level. We use a single VaR model, which 
captures risks, including those related to interest rates, equity 
prices, currency rates and commodity prices. As such, VaR 
facilitates comparison across portfolios of different risk 
characteristics. VaR also captures the diversification of 
aggregated risk at the firmwide level. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
106
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We are aware of the inherent limitations to VaR and 
therefore use a variety of risk measures in our market risk 
management process. Inherent limitations to VaR include: 
• VaR does not estimate potential losses over longer time 
horizons where moves may be extreme; 
• VaR does not take account of the relative liquidity of 
different risk positions; and 
• Previous moves in market risk factors may not produce 
accurate predictions of all future market moves. 
To comprehensively capture our exposures and relevant risks 
in our VaR calculation, we use historical simulations with 
full valuation of market factors at the position level by 
simultaneously shocking the relevant market factors for that 
position. These market factors include spot prices, credit 
spreads, funding spreads, yield curves, volatility and 
correlation, and are updated periodically based on changes in 
the composition of positions, as well as variations in market 
conditions. We sample from five years of historical data to 
generate the scenarios for our VaR calculation. The historical 
data is weighted so that the relative importance of the data 
reduces over time. This gives greater importance to more 
recent observations and reflects current asset volatilities, 
which improves the accuracy of our estimates of potential 
loss. As a result, even if our positions included in VaR were 
unchanged, our VaR would increase with increasing market 
volatility and vice versa. 
Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most effective in 
estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no 
sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. 
Our VaR measure does not include: 
• Positions that are not accounted for at fair value, such as 
held-to-maturity securities and loans, deposits and 
unsecured borrowings that are accounted for at amortized 
cost;
• Available-for-sale 
securities 
for 
which 
the 
related 
unrealized fair value gains and losses are included in 
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss);
• Positions that are best measured and monitored using 
sensitivity measures; and 
• The impact of changes in counterparty and our own credit 
spreads on derivatives, as well as changes in our own credit 
spreads on financial liabilities for which the fair value 
option was elected. 
We perform daily backtesting of our VaR model (i.e., 
comparing daily net revenues for positions included in VaR 
to the VaR measure calculated as of the prior business day) at 
the firmwide level and for each of our businesses and major 
regulated subsidiaries. 
Earnings-at-Risk. We manage our interest rate risk using 
the EaR metric. EaR measures the estimated impact of 
changes in interest rates to our net revenues and preferred 
stock dividends over a defined time horizon. EaR 
complements the VaR metric, which measures the impact of 
interest rate changes that have an immediate impact on the 
fair values of our assets and liabilities (i.e., mark-to-market 
changes). Our exposure to interest rate risk occurs due to a 
variety of factors, including, but not limited to:
• Differences in maturity or repricing dates of assets, 
liabilities, preferred stock and certain off-balance sheet 
instruments.
• Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities, preferred 
stock and certain off-balance sheet instruments with the 
same maturity or repricing dates. 
• Certain interest rate sensitive fees.
Corporate Treasury manages the aggregated interest rate risk 
from all businesses using both cash and derivatives 
instruments, 
including 
available-for-sale 
and 
held-to-
maturity securities and interest rate derivatives. We measure 
EaR over a one-year time horizon following a 100- and 200-
basis point instantaneous parallel shock in both short- and 
long-term interest rates. This sensitivity is calculated relative 
to a baseline market scenario, which takes into consideration, 
among other things, the market’s expectation of forward 
rates, as well as our expectation of future business activity. 
These scenarios include contractual elements of assets, 
liabilities, preferred stock, and certain off-balance sheet 
instruments, such as rates of interest, principal repayment 
schedules, maturity and reset dates, and any interest rate 
ceilings or floors, as well as assumptions with respect to our 
balance sheet size and composition, prepayment behavior 
and deposit repricing. Deposit repricing is captured by 
evaluating the change in deposit rate paid relative to the 
change in market rates (deposit beta) and we calibrate the 
deposit betas used in our models by using a number of 
factors, including observed historical behavior, future 
expectations, funding needs and the competitive landscape. 
We continuously monitor the performance of our key 
assumptions against observed behavior and regularly review 
their sensitivity on our risk metrics. 
We manage EaR with a goal to reduce potential volatility 
resulting from changes in interest rates so it remains within 
our EaR risk appetite. Our EaR scenario is regularly 
evaluated and updated, if necessary, to reflect changes in our 
business plans, market conditions and other macroeconomic 
factors. While management uses the best information 
available to estimate EaR, actual results may differ materially 
as a result of, among other things, changes in the economic 
environment or assumptions used in the process. We also 
measure the sensitivity of the economic value of our equity 
(EVE) to changes in interest rates. Compared to EaR, EVE 
provides a longer-term measurement of the interest rate risk 
exposure, primarily on non-trading assets and liabilities, by 
capturing the net impact of changes in interest rates to the 
present value of their cash flows. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
107
Corporate Treasury is responsible for our aggregated interest 
rate risk, including assessing and monitoring EaR and EVE 
sensitivity, and interest rate risk stress tests and assumptions. 
Risk, which is part of our second line of defense and reports 
to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for 
assessing, monitoring and managing our interest rate risk 
(including 
EaR 
and 
EVE 
sensitivity) 
by 
providing 
independent firmwide oversight and challenge across our 
global businesses. 
Stress Testing. Stress testing is a method of determining the 
effect of various hypothetical stress scenarios. We use stress 
tests to examine risks of specific portfolios, as well as the 
potential impact of our significant risk exposures. We use a 
variety of stress testing techniques to calculate the potential 
loss from a wide range of market moves on our portfolios, 
including firmwide stress tests, sensitivity analysis and 
scenario analysis. The results of our various stress tests are 
analyzed together for risk management purposes. See 
“Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for 
information about firmwide stress tests. 
Sensitivity analysis is used to quantify the impact of a market 
move in a single risk factor across all positions (e.g., equity 
prices or credit spreads) using a variety of defined market 
shocks, ranging from those that could be expected over a 
one-day time horizon up to those that could take many 
months to occur. We also use sensitivity analysis to quantify 
the impact of the default of any single entity, which captures 
the risk of large or concentrated exposures. 
Scenario analysis is used to quantify the impact of a specified 
event, including how the event impacts multiple risk factors 
simultaneously. For example, for sovereign stress testing we 
calculate potential direct exposure associated with our 
sovereign positions, as well as the corresponding debt, equity 
and currency exposures associated with our non-sovereign 
positions that may be impacted by the sovereign distress. 
When conducting scenario analysis, we often consider a 
number of possible outcomes for each scenario, ranging from 
moderate to severely adverse market impacts. In addition, 
these stress tests are constructed using both historical events 
and forward-looking hypothetical scenarios. 
Unlike VaR measures, which have an implied probability 
because they are calculated at a specified confidence level, 
there may not be an implied probability that our stress testing 
scenarios will occur. Instead, stress testing is used to model 
both moderate and more extreme moves in underlying 
market factors. When estimating potential loss, we generally 
assume that our positions cannot be reduced or hedged 
(although experience demonstrates that we are generally able 
to do so). 
Limits 
We use market risk limits at various levels to manage the size 
of our market exposures. These limits are set based on VaR, 
EaR and on a range of stress tests relevant to our exposures. 
See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for 
information about the limit approval process. 
Limits are monitored by Corporate Treasury and Risk. Risk 
is responsible for identifying and escalating to senior 
management and/or the appropriate risk committee, on a 
timely basis, instances where limits have been exceeded (e.g., 
due to positional changes or changes in market conditions, 
such as increased volatilities or changes in correlations). Such 
instances are remediated by a reduction in the positions we 
hold and/or a temporary or permanent increase to the limit, if 
warranted. 
Metrics 
We analyze VaR at the firmwide level and a variety of more 
detailed levels, including by risk category, business and 
region. Diversification effect in the tables below represents 
the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for 
the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four 
market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. 
Substantially all positions in VaR are included within Global 
Banking & Markets.
The table below presents our average daily VaR. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Categories
Interest rates
$ 
81 $ 
96 
Equity prices
 
37  
29 
Currency rates
 
26  
24 
Commodity prices
 
19  
19 
Diversification effect
 
(71)  
(69) 
Total
$ 
92 $ 
99 
Our average daily VaR decreased to $92 million in 2024 from 
$99 million in 2023, due to lower levels of volatility, partially 
offset by increased exposures. The total decrease was 
primarily driven by a decrease in the interest rates category, 
partially offset by an increase in the equity prices category.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
108
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents our period-end VaR. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Categories
Interest rates
$ 
84 $ 
93 
Equity prices
 
41  
25 
Currency rates
 
38  
15 
Commodity prices
 
14  
14 
Diversification effect
 
(86)  
(54) 
Total
$ 
91 $ 
93 
Our period-end VaR decreased to $91 million as of December 
2024 from $93 million as of December 2023, due to lower 
levels of volatility, partially offset by increased exposures. 
The total decrease was driven by an increase in the 
diversification effect and a decrease in the interest rates 
category, partially offset by an increase in the currency rates 
and equity prices categories.
During 2024, there was a permanent increase to the firmwide 
VaR risk limit due to higher levels of volatility and increased 
exposures. The firmwide VaR risk limit was not exceeded 
during this period. During 2023, the firmwide VaR risk limit 
was not exceeded and there were no permanent changes to 
the firmwide VaR risk limit. However, the firmwide VaR risk 
limit was temporarily changed on four occasions as a result 
of changes in the market environment in the first half of 2023. 
The table below presents our high and low VaR. 
Year Ended December
2024
2023
$ in millions
High
Low
High
Low
Categories
Interest rates
$ 
121 $ 
57 
$ 148 $ 
70 
Equity prices
$ 
65 $ 
25 
$ 
49 $ 
22 
Currency rates
$ 
47 $ 
10 
$ 
47 $ 
9 
Commodity prices
$ 
31 $ 
12 
$ 
32 $ 
11 
Firmwide
VaR
$ 
116 $ 
75 
$ 142 $ 
79 
The chart below presents our daily VaR for 2024.
The table below presents, by number of business days, the 
frequency distribution of our daily net revenues for positions 
included in VaR. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
>$100
62
52
$75 – $100
39
40
$50 – $75
57
52
$25 – $50
46
47
$0 – $25
31
22
$(25) – $0
12
30
$(50) – $(25)
3
4
$(75) – $(50)
–
2
$(100) – $(75)
–
–
<$(100)
2
1
Total
252
250
Daily net revenues for positions included in VaR are 
compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the prior 
business day. Net losses incurred on a single day for such 
positions exceeded our 95% one-day VaR (i.e., a VaR 
exception) on two occasions during 2024 and on one occasion 
during 2023.
During periods in which we have significantly more positive 
net revenue days than net revenue loss days, we expect to 
have fewer VaR exceptions because, under normal 
conditions, our business model generally produces positive 
net revenues. In periods in which our franchise revenues are 
adversely affected, we generally have more loss days, 
resulting in more VaR exceptions. The daily net revenues for 
positions included in VaR used to determine VaR exceptions 
reflect the impact of any intraday activity, including bid/offer 
net revenues, which are more likely than not to be positive by 
their nature. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
109
Sensitivity Measures 
Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included 
in VaR because VaR is not the most appropriate risk 
measure. Other sensitivity measures we use to analyze market 
risk are described below. 
10% Sensitivity Measures. The table below presents our 
market risk by asset category for positions accounted for at 
fair value or accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value, 
that are not included in VaR. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Equity
$ 
1,567 $ 
1,562 
Debt
 
1,904  
2,446 
Total
$ 
3,471 $ 
4,008 
In the table above: 
• The market risk of these positions is determined by 
estimating the potential reduction in net revenues of a 10% 
decline in the value of the underlying positions. 
• Equity positions relate to private and public equity 
securities, 
which 
primarily 
include 
investments 
in 
corporate, 
real 
estate 
and 
infrastructure 
assets. 
Substantially all such equity positions are included within 
Asset & Wealth Management.
• Debt positions include mezzanine and senior debt, and 
corporate and real estate loans, substantially all of which 
are included within Asset & Wealth Management. Debt 
positions also included approximately $1.8  billion as of 
December 2024 and approximately $2.0  billion as of 
December 2023 of GM co-branded credit card loans, and 
approximately $3.0  billion as of December 2023 of 
GreenSky loans that were classified as held for sale. These 
held for sale loans were included within Platform 
Solutions.
• Funded equity and debt positions are included in our 
consolidated balance sheets in investments and loans, and 
the related hedges are included in our consolidated balance 
sheets in derivatives. See Note 8 to the consolidated 
financial statements for further information about 
investments, Note 9 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information about loans and Note 7 
to the consolidated financial statements for further 
information about derivatives. 
• These measures do not reflect the diversification effect 
across asset categories or across other market risk 
measures. 
Credit and Funding Spread Sensitivity on Derivatives 
and Financial Liabilities. VaR excludes the impact of 
changes in counterparty credit spreads, our own credit 
spreads and unsecured funding spreads on derivatives, as well 
as changes in our own credit spreads (debt valuation 
adjustment) on financial liabilities for which the fair value 
option was elected. The estimated sensitivity to a one basis 
point increase in credit spreads (counterparty and our own) 
and unsecured funding spreads on derivatives (including 
hedges) was a loss of $2 million as of both December 2024 
and December 2023. In addition, the estimated sensitivity to a 
one basis point increase in our own credit spreads on 
financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected 
was a gain of $43  million as of December 2024 and 
$42  million as of December 2023. However, the actual net 
impact of a change in our own credit spreads is also affected 
by the liquidity, duration and convexity (as the sensitivity is 
not linear to changes in yields) of those financial liabilities for 
which the fair value option was elected, as well as the relative 
performance of any hedges undertaken. 
Earnings-at-Risk. The table below presents the impact of a 
parallel shift in rates on our net revenues and preferred stock 
dividends over the next 12 months relative to the baseline 
scenario. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
+100 basis points parallel shift in rates
$ 
140 $ 
225 
-100 basis points parallel shift in rates
$ 
(270) $ 
(232) 
+200 basis points parallel shift in rates
$ 
196 $ 
445 
-200 basis points parallel shift in rates
$ 
(525) $ 
(475) 
In the table above, the EaR metric utilized various 
assumptions, including, among other things, balance sheet 
size and composition, prepayment behavior and deposit 
repricing, all of which have inherent uncertainties. The EaR 
metric does not represent a forecast of our net revenues and 
preferred stock dividends. We expect our EaR to be more 
sensitive to short-term interest rates than long-term rates.
Other Market Risk Considerations 
We make investments in securities that are accounted for as 
available-for-sale, held-to-maturity or under the equity 
method which are included in investments in the consolidated 
balance sheets. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information. 
Direct investments in real estate are accounted for at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. See Note 12 to the consolidated 
financial statements for further information about other 
assets. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
110
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Financial 
Statement 
Linkages 
to 
Market 
Risk 
Measures 
We employ a variety of risk measures, each described in the 
respective sections above, to monitor market risk across the 
consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of 
earnings. The related gains and losses on these positions are 
included in market making, other principal transactions, 
interest income and interest expense in the consolidated 
statements of earnings, and debt valuation adjustment and 
unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities in the 
consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 
The table below presents certain assets and liabilities 
accounted for at fair value or accounted for at the lower of 
cost or fair value in our consolidated balance sheets and the 
market risk measures used to assess those assets and 
liabilities. 
Assets or Liabilities
Market Risk Measures
Collateralized agreements and financings
VaR
Customer and other receivables
10% Sensitivity Measures
Trading assets and liabilities
VaR                             
Credit Spread Sensitivity
10% Sensitivity Measures
Investments
VaR
10% Sensitivity Measures
Loans
VaR
10% Sensitivity Measures
Other assets and liabilities
VaR
Deposits
VaR
Credit Spread Sensitivity
Unsecured borrowings
VaR
Credit Spread Sensitivity
In addition to the above, we measure the interest rate risk for 
all positions within our consolidated balance sheets using the 
EaR metric. 
Credit Risk Management 
Overview 
Credit risk represents the potential for loss due to the default 
or deterioration in credit quality of a counterparty (e.g., an 
OTC derivatives counterparty or a borrower) or an issuer of 
securities or other instruments we hold. Our exposure to 
credit risk comes mostly from client transactions in OTC 
derivatives and loans and lending commitments. Credit risk 
also comes from cash placed with banks, securities financing 
transactions (i.e., resale and repurchase agreements and 
securities borrowing and lending activities) and customer and 
other receivables. 
Credit Risk, which is part of our second line of defense and 
reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for 
assessing, monitoring and managing our credit risk by 
providing independent firmwide oversight and challenge 
across our global businesses. In addition, we hold other 
positions that give rise to credit risk (e.g., bonds and 
secondary bank loans). These credit risks are captured as a 
component of market risk measures, which are monitored 
and managed by Market Risk. We also enter into derivatives 
to manage market risk exposures. Such derivatives also give 
rise to credit risk, which is monitored and managed by Credit 
Risk. 
Credit Risk Management Process 
Our process for managing credit risk includes the critical 
components of our risk management framework described in 
the “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” as well 
as the following: 
• Monitoring compliance with established credit risk limits 
and 
reporting 
our 
credit 
exposures 
and 
credit 
concentrations; 
• Establishing or approving underwriting standards; 
• Assessing the likelihood that a counterparty will default on 
its payment obligations; 
• Measuring our current and potential credit exposure and 
losses resulting from a counterparty default; 
• Using credit risk mitigants, including collateral and 
hedging; and 
• Maximizing recovery through active workout and 
restructuring of claims. 
We also perform credit analyses, which incorporate initial 
and ongoing evaluations of the capacity and willingness of a 
counterparty 
to 
meet 
its 
financial 
obligations. 
For 
substantially all of our credit exposures, the core of our 
process is an annual counterparty credit evaluation or more 
frequently if deemed necessary as a result of events or 
changes in circumstances. We determine an internal credit 
rating for the counterparty by considering the results of the 
credit evaluations and assumptions with respect to the nature 
of and outlook for the counterparty’s industry and the 
economic environment. For collateralized loans, we also take 
into consideration collateral received or other credit support 
arrangements when determining an internal credit rating. 
Senior personnel, with expertise in specific industries, inspect 
and approve credit reviews and internal credit ratings. 
Our risk assessment process may also include, where 
applicable, reviewing certain key metrics, including, but not 
limited to, delinquency status, collateral value, FICO credit 
scores and other risk factors. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
111
Our credit risk management systems capture credit exposure 
to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to 
counterparties and their subsidiaries. These systems also 
provide management with comprehensive information about 
our aggregate credit risk by product, internal credit rating, 
industry, country and region. 
Risk Measures 
We measure our credit risk based on the potential loss in the 
event of non-payment by a counterparty using current and 
potential exposure. For derivatives and securities financing 
transactions, current exposure represents the amount 
presently owed to us after taking into account applicable 
netting and collateral arrangements, while potential exposure 
represents our estimate of the future exposure that could 
arise over the life of a transaction based on market 
movements within a specified confidence level. Potential 
exposure also takes into account netting and collateral 
arrangements. For loans and lending commitments, the 
primary measure is a function of the notional amount of the 
position. 
Stress Tests 
We conduct regular stress tests to calculate the credit 
exposures, including potential concentrations that would 
result from applying shocks to counterparty credit ratings or 
credit risk factors (e.g., currency rates, interest rates, equity 
prices). These shocks cover a wide range of moderate and 
more extreme market movements, including shocks to 
multiple risk factors, consistent with the occurrence of a 
severe market or economic event. In the case of sovereign 
default, we estimate the direct impact of the default on our 
sovereign credit exposures, changes to our credit exposures 
arising from potential market moves in response to the 
default, and the impact of credit market deterioration on 
corporate borrowers and counterparties that may result from 
the sovereign default. Unlike potential exposure, which is 
calculated within a specified confidence level, stress testing 
does not generally assume a probability of these events 
occurring. We also perform firmwide stress tests. See 
“Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for 
information about firmwide stress tests. 
To supplement these regular stress tests, as described above, 
we also conduct tailored stress tests on an ad hoc basis in 
response to specific events that we deem significant. We also 
utilize these stress tests to estimate the indirect impact of 
certain hypothetical events on our country exposures, such as 
the impact of credit market deterioration on corporate 
borrowers and counterparties along with the shocks to the 
risk factors described above. The parameters of these shocks 
vary based on the scenario reflected in each stress test. We 
review estimated losses produced by the stress tests in order 
to understand their magnitude, highlight potential loss 
concentrations, and assess and seek to mitigate our 
exposures, where necessary. 
Limits 
We use credit risk limits at various levels, as well as 
underwriting standards to manage the size and nature of our 
credit exposures. Limits for industries and countries are 
based on our risk appetite and are designed to allow for 
regular monitoring, review, escalation and management of 
credit risk concentrations. See “Overview and Structure of 
Risk Management” for information about the limit approval 
process. 
Credit Risk is responsible for monitoring these limits, and 
identifying and escalating to senior management and/or the 
appropriate risk committee, on a timely basis, instances 
where limits have been exceeded. 
Risk Mitigants 
To reduce our credit exposures on derivatives and securities 
financing transactions, we may enter into netting agreements 
with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables and 
payables with such counterparties. We may also reduce credit 
risk with counterparties by entering into agreements that 
enable us to obtain collateral from them on an upfront or 
contingent basis and/or to terminate transactions if the 
counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified level. We 
monitor the fair value of the collateral to ensure that our 
credit exposures are appropriately collateralized. We seek to 
minimize exposures where there is a significant positive 
correlation 
between 
the 
creditworthiness 
of 
our 
counterparties and the market value of collateral we receive. 
For loans and lending commitments, depending on the credit 
quality of the borrower and other characteristics of the 
transaction, we employ a variety of potential risk mitigants. 
Risk mitigants include collateral provisions, guarantees, 
covenants, structural seniority of the bank loan claims and, 
for certain lending commitments, provisions in the legal 
documentation that allow us to adjust loan amounts, pricing, 
structure and other terms as market conditions change. The 
type and structure of risk mitigants employed can 
significantly influence the degree of credit risk involved in a 
loan or lending commitment. 
When we do not have sufficient visibility into a 
counterparty’s financial strength or when we believe a 
counterparty requires support from its parent, we may obtain 
third-party guarantees of the counterparty’s obligations. We 
may also seek to mitigate our credit risk using credit 
derivatives or participation agreements.  
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
112
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Credit Exposures 
As of December 2024, our aggregate credit exposure 
decreased slightly compared with December 2023, primarily 
reflecting a decrease in cash deposits with central banks, 
partially offset by an increase in loans and lending 
commitments. The percentage of our credit exposures arising 
from non-investment-grade counterparties (based on our 
internally determined public rating agency equivalents) 
increased compared with December 2023, primarily reflecting 
a decrease in investment-grade credit exposure related to cash 
deposits with central banks. Our credit exposures are 
described further below. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents. Our credit exposure on cash 
and cash equivalents arises from our unrestricted cash, and 
includes both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing 
deposits. We seek to mitigate the risk of credit loss, by 
placing substantially all of our deposits with highly rated 
banks and central banks. 
The table below presents our credit exposure from 
unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, and the concentration 
by industry, region and internally determined public rating 
agency equivalents. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 $167,253  $224,493 
Industry
Financial Institutions
 10% 
 9% 
Sovereign
 90% 
 91% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Region
Americas
 67% 
 50% 
EMEA
 24% 
 34% 
Asia
 9% 
 16% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA
 79% 
 65% 
AA
 6% 
 15% 
A
 14% 
 20% 
BBB
 1%  
– 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
The table above excludes cash segregated for regulatory and 
other purposes of $14.84  billion as of December 2024 and 
$17.08 billion as of December 2023. 
OTC Derivatives. Our credit exposure on OTC derivatives 
arises primarily from our market-making activities. As a 
market maker, we enter into derivative transactions to 
provide liquidity to clients and to facilitate the transfer and 
hedging of their risks. We also enter into derivatives to 
manage market risk exposures. We manage our credit 
exposure on OTC derivatives using the credit risk process, 
measures, limits and risk mitigants described above. 
We generally enter into OTC derivatives transactions under 
bilateral collateral arrangements that require the daily 
exchange of collateral. As credit risk is an essential 
component of fair value, we include a credit valuation 
adjustment (CVA) in the fair value of derivatives to reflect 
counterparty credit risk, as described in Note 7 to the 
consolidated financial statements. CVA is a function of the 
present value of expected exposure, the probability of 
counterparty default and the assumed recovery upon default. 
The table below presents our net credit exposure from OTC 
derivatives and the concentration by industry and region. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
OTC derivative assets
 
$41,655 
 $42,950 
Collateral (not netted under U.S. GAAP)
 
(15,821) 
 (14,420) 
Net credit exposure
 
$25,834 
 $28,530 
Industry
Consumer & Retail
 3% 
 3% 
Diversified Industrials
 10% 
 11% 
Financial Institutions
 19% 
 21% 
Funds
 28% 
 20% 
Healthcare
 1% 
 2% 
Municipalities & Nonprofit
 2% 
 4% 
Natural Resources & Utilities
 16% 
 17% 
Sovereign
 11% 
 14% 
Technology, Media & Telecommunications
 8% 
 6% 
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles)
 2% 
 2% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Region
Americas
 43% 
 48% 
EMEA
 49% 
 45% 
Asia
 8% 
 7% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Our credit exposure (before any potential recoveries) to OTC 
derivative counterparties that defaulted during 2024 remained 
low, representing less than 2% of our total credit exposure 
from OTC derivatives.
In the table above: 
• OTC derivative assets, included in the consolidated 
balance sheets, are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis 
(i.e., the net receivable for a given counterparty) when a 
legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting 
agreement (counterparty netting) and are accounted for at 
fair value, net of cash collateral received under enforceable 
credit support agreements (cash collateral netting). 
• Collateral represents cash collateral and the fair value of 
securities 
collateral, 
primarily 
U.S. 
and 
non-U.S. 
government and agency obligations, received under credit 
support agreements, that we consider when determining 
credit risk, but such collateral is not eligible for netting 
under U.S. GAAP. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
113
The table below presents the distribution of our net credit 
exposure from OTC derivatives by tenor. 
$ in millions
Investment-
Grade
Non-Investment-
Grade / Unrated
Total
As of December 2024
Less than 1 year
$ 
24,256 $ 
5,247 $ 
29,503 
1 – 5 years
 
16,762  
5,240  
22,002 
Greater than 5 years
 
49,709  
2,622  
52,331 
Total
 
90,727  
13,109  
103,836 
Netting
 
(72,077)  
(5,925)  
(78,002) 
Net credit exposure
$ 
18,650 $ 
7,184 $ 
25,834 
As of December 2023
Less than 1 year
$ 
19,314 $ 
7,700 $ 
27,014 
1 – 5 years
 
19,673  
6,331  
26,004 
Greater than 5 years
 
51,944  
3,999  
55,943 
Total
 
90,931  
18,030  
108,961 
Netting
 
(72,412)  
(8,019)  
(80,431) 
Net credit exposure
$ 
18,519 $ 
10,011 $ 
28,530 
In the table above: 
• Tenor is based on remaining contractual maturity for 
substantially all OTC derivative assets. 
• Netting includes counterparty netting across tenor 
categories 
and 
collateral 
that 
we 
consider 
when 
determining credit risk (including collateral that is not 
eligible for netting under U.S. GAAP). Counterparty 
netting within the same tenor category is included within 
such tenor category. 
The tables below present the distribution of our net credit 
exposure from OTC derivatives by tenor and internally 
determined public rating agency equivalents. 
Investment-Grade
$ in millions
AAA
AA
A
BBB
Total
As of December 2024
Less than 1 year
$ 
781 $ 
5,243 $ 11,397 $ 
6,835 $ 24,256 
1 – 5 years
 
855  
4,301  
6,689  
4,917  
16,762 
Greater than 5 years
 
2,431  
13,970  
17,824  
15,484  
49,709 
Total
 
4,067  
23,514  
35,910  
27,236  
90,727 
Netting
 
(1,753)  (20,812)  (30,083)  (19,429)  (72,077) 
Net credit exposure
$ 
2,314 $ 
2,702 $ 
5,827 $ 
7,807 $ 18,650 
As of December 2023
Less than 1 year
$ 
583 $ 
4,383 $ 
7,718 $ 
6,630 $ 19,314 
1 – 5 years
 
1,226  
4,850  
6,755  
6,842  
19,673 
Greater than 5 years
 
5,963  
13,417  
15,507  
17,057  
51,944 
Total
 
7,772  
22,650  
29,980  
30,529  
90,931 
Netting
 
(5,308)  (18,364)  (25,470)  (23,270)  (72,412) 
Net credit exposure
$ 
2,464 $ 
4,286 $ 
4,510 $ 
7,259 $ 18,519 
Non-Investment-Grade / Unrated
$ in millions
≤ BB 
Unrated
Total
As of December 2024
Less than 1 year
$ 
5,020 $ 
227 $ 
5,247 
1 – 5 years
 
5,201  
39  
5,240 
Greater than 5 years
 
2,578  
44  
2,622 
Total
 
12,799  
310  
13,109 
Netting
 
(5,888)  
(37)  
(5,925) 
Net credit exposure
$ 
6,911 $ 
273 $ 
7,184 
As of December 2023
Less than 1 year
$ 
7,274 $ 
426 $ 
7,700 
1 – 5 years
 
6,244  
87  
6,331 
Greater than 5 years
 
3,887  
112  
3,999 
Total
 
17,405  
625  
18,030 
Netting
 
(7,975)  
(44)  
(8,019) 
Net credit exposure
$ 
9,430 $ 
581 $ 10,011 
Lending Activities. We manage our lending activities using 
the credit risk process, measures, limits and risk mitigants 
described 
above. 
Other 
lending 
positions, 
including 
secondary trading positions, are risk-managed as a 
component of market risk. 
The 
table 
below 
presents 
our 
loans 
and 
lending 
commitments. 
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Total
As of December 2024
Corporate
$ 
29,972 $ 
162,529 $ 192,501 
Commercial real estate
 
29,789  
5,016  
34,805 
Residential real estate
 
25,969  
1,848  
27,817 
Securities-based
 
16,477  
1,542  
18,019 
Other collateralized
 
75,107  
33,536  
108,643 
Consumer:
Installment
 
70  
–  
70 
Credit cards
 
21,403  
78,099  
99,502 
Other
 
2,079  
872  
2,951 
Total
$ 200,866 $ 
283,442 $ 484,308 
Allowance for loan losses
$ 
(4,666) $ 
(674) $ 
(5,340) 
As of December 2023
Corporate
$ 
35,874 $ 
144,463 $ 180,337 
Commercial real estate
 
26,028  
3,440  
29,468 
Residential real estate
 
25,388  
1,471  
26,859 
Securities-based
 
14,621  
691  
15,312 
Other collateralized
 
62,225  
23,731  
85,956 
Consumer:
Installment
 
3,298  
2,250  
5,548 
Credit cards
 
19,361  
70,824  
90,185 
Other
 
1,613  
888  
2,501 
Total
$ 188,408 $ 
247,758 $ 436,166 
Allowance for loan losses
$ 
(5,050) $ 
(620) $ 
(5,670) 
In the table above, lending commitments excluded $5.69 
billion as of December 2024 and $5.81 billion as of December 
2023 related to issued letters of credit which are classified as 
guarantees in our consolidated financial statements. See Note 
18 to the consolidated financial statements for further 
information about guarantees. 
See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for 
information about net charge-offs on wholesale and 
consumer loans, as well as past due and nonaccrual loans 
accounted for at amortized cost.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
114
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Corporate. Corporate loans and lending commitments 
include term loans, revolving lines of credit, letter of credit 
facilities and bridge loans, and are principally used for 
operating and general corporate purposes, or in connection 
with acquisitions. Corporate loans are secured (typically by a 
senior lien on the assets of the borrower) or unsecured, 
depending on the loan purpose, the risk profile of the 
borrower and other factors. 
The table below presents our credit exposure from corporate 
loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by 
industry, region, internally determined public rating agency 
equivalents and other credit metrics. 
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Total
As of December 2024
Corporate
 $29,972  
$162,529  $192,501 
Industry
Consumer & Retail
 9% 
 13% 
 12% 
Diversified Industrials
 16% 
 20% 
 20% 
Financial Institutions
 9% 
 9% 
 9% 
Funds
 5% 
 3% 
 3% 
Healthcare
 9% 
 11% 
 11% 
Natural Resources & Utilities
 9% 
 16% 
 15% 
Real Estate
 14% 
 5% 
 6% 
Technology, Media & Telecommunications
 24% 
 22% 
 22% 
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles)
 5% 
 1% 
 2% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Region
Americas
 66% 
 76% 
 75% 
EMEA
 26% 
 22% 
 22% 
Asia
 8% 
 2% 
 3% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA
 
– 
 1% 
 1% 
AA
 1% 
 4% 
 4% 
A
 6% 
 17% 
 16% 
BBB
 22% 
 41% 
 37% 
BB or lower
 71% 
 37% 
 42% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
Corporate
 $35,874 
 $144,463  $180,337 
Industry
Consumer & Retail
 11% 
 13% 
 12% 
Diversified Industrials
 17% 
 20% 
 20% 
Financial Institutions
 8% 
 9% 
 9% 
Funds
 4% 
 3% 
 3% 
Healthcare
 9% 
 11% 
 10% 
Natural Resources & Utilities
 8% 
 18% 
 16% 
Real Estate
 13% 
 5% 
 7% 
Technology, Media & Telecommunications
 25% 
 20% 
 21% 
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles)
 5% 
 1% 
 2% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Region
Americas
 63% 
 77% 
 74% 
EMEA
 29% 
 22% 
 23% 
Asia
 8% 
 1% 
 3% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA
 
– 
 1% 
 1% 
AA
 1% 
 5% 
 4% 
A
 5% 
 20% 
 17% 
BBB
 20% 
 41% 
 37% 
BB or lower
 74% 
 33% 
 41% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Commercial Real Estate. Commercial real estate includes 
originated loans and lending commitments that are directly 
or indirectly secured by hotels, retail stores, multifamily 
housing complexes and commercial and industrial properties. 
Commercial real estate also includes loans and lending 
commitments extended to clients who warehouse assets that 
are directly or indirectly backed by commercial real estate. In 
addition, commercial real estate includes loans purchased by 
us. 
The table below presents our credit exposure from 
commercial real estate loans and lending commitments, and 
the concentration by region, internally determined public 
rating agency equivalents and other credit metrics. 
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Total
As of December 2024
Commercial Real Estate
 
$29,789  
$5,016  
$34,805 
Region
Americas
 78% 
 83% 
 78% 
EMEA
 18% 
 16% 
 18% 
Asia
 4% 
 1% 
 4% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 61% 
 61% 
 61% 
Non-investment-grade
 39% 
 38% 
 39% 
Unrated
 
– 
 1%  
– 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
Commercial Real Estate
 $26,028 
 $3,440 
 $29,468 
Region
Americas
 80% 
 74% 
 79% 
EMEA
 17% 
 25% 
 18% 
Asia
 3% 
 1% 
 3% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 47% 
 46% 
 47% 
Non-investment-grade
 52% 
 54% 
 52% 
Unrated
 1%  
– 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above, the concentration of loans and lending 
commitments by asset class as of December 2024 was 50% 
for warehouse and other indirect, 11% for multifamily, 7% 
for industrials, 5% for hospitality, 4% for office, 3% for 
mixed use and 20% for other asset classes. The concentration 
of loans and lending commitments by asset class as of 
December 2023 was 42% for warehouse and other indirect, 
13% for multifamily, 12% for industrials, 7% for office, 7% 
for hospitality, 7% for mixed use and 12% for other asset 
classes. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
115
In addition, we also have credit exposure to commercial real 
estate loans held for securitization of $568 million as of 
December 2024 and $119 million as of December 2023. Such 
loans are included in trading assets in our consolidated 
balance sheets. 
Residential Real Estate. Residential real estate loans and 
lending commitments are primarily extended to wealth 
management clients and to clients who warehouse assets that 
are directly or indirectly secured by residential real estate. In 
addition, residential real estate includes loans purchased by 
us.
The table below presents our credit exposure from residential 
real estate loans and lending commitments, and the 
concentration by region, internally determined public rating 
agency equivalents and other credit metrics. 
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Total
As of December 2024
Residential Real Estate
 $25,969  
$1,848  $27,817 
Region
Americas
 94% 
 99% 
 94% 
EMEA
 5%  
– 
 5% 
Asia
 1% 
 1% 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 39% 
 38% 
 39% 
Non-investment-grade
 13% 
 36% 
 15% 
Other metrics
 48% 
 24% 
 46% 
Unrated
 
– 
 2%  
– 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
Residential Real Estate
 $25,388 
 $1,471  $26,859 
Region
Americas
 95% 
 93% 
 95% 
EMEA
 4% 
 7% 
 4% 
Asia
 1%  
– 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 42% 
 56% 
 43% 
Non-investment-grade
 13% 
 25% 
 13% 
Other metrics
 45% 
 16% 
 43% 
Unrated
 
– 
 3% 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above:
• Credit exposure included loans and lending commitments 
of $14.35 billion as of December 2024 and $14.45 billion as 
of December 2023 which are extended to clients who 
warehouse assets that are directly or indirectly secured by 
residential real estate. 
• Substantially all residential real estate loans included in the 
other metrics category consists of loans extended to wealth 
management clients. As of both December 2024 and 
December 2023, substantially all of such loans had a loan-
to-value ratio of less than 80% and were performing in 
accordance with the contractual terms. Additionally, as of 
both December 2024 and December 2023, the vast majority 
of such loans had a FICO credit score of greater than 740.
In addition, we also have credit exposure to residential real 
estate loans held for securitization of $10.18 billion as of 
December 2024 and $7.65 billion as of December 2023. Such 
loans are included in trading assets in our consolidated 
balance sheets. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
116
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Securities-Based. Securities-based includes loans and 
lending commitments that are secured by stocks, bonds, 
mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds. These loans and 
commitments are primarily extended to our wealth 
management clients and used for purposes other than 
purchasing, carrying or trading margin stocks. Securities-
based loans require borrowers to post additional collateral on 
a daily basis (daily margin requirement) based on changes in 
the underlying collateral’s fair value. 
The table below presents our credit exposure from securities-
based loans and lending commitments, and the concentration 
by region, internally determined public rating agency 
equivalents and other credit metrics.  
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Total
As of December 2024
Securities-based
 $16,477  
$1,542  $18,019 
Region
Americas
 76% 
 50% 
 73% 
EMEA
 24% 
 50% 
 27% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 77% 
 63% 
 76% 
Non-investment-grade
 2%  
– 
 2% 
Other metrics
 21% 
 37% 
 22% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
Securities-based
 $14,621 
 
$691 
 $15,312 
Region
Americas
 79% 
 98% 
 80% 
EMEA
 20% 
 2% 
 19% 
Asia
 1%  
– 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 75% 
 25% 
 73% 
Non-investment-grade
 4% 
 2% 
 4% 
Other metrics
 21% 
 73% 
 23% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above, the vast majority of securities-based loans 
included in the other metrics category had a loan-to-value 
ratio of less than 80% and were performing in accordance 
with the contractual terms as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023. 
Other Collateralized. Other collateralized includes loans 
and lending commitments that are backed by specific 
collateral (other than securities-based loans where there is a 
daily margin requirement and real estate loans). Such loans 
and lending commitments are extended to clients who 
warehouse assets that are directly or indirectly secured by 
corporate loans, consumer loans and other assets. Other 
collateralized also includes loans and lending commitments 
to investment funds (managed by third parties) that are 
collateralized by capital commitments of the funds’ investors 
or assets held by the fund, as well as other secured loans and 
lending commitments extended to our wealth management 
and corporate clients.
The table below presents our credit exposure from other 
collateralized loans and lending commitments, and the 
concentration by region, internally determined public rating 
agency equivalents and other credit metrics. 
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Total
As of December 2024
Other Collateralized
 $75,107  
$33,536  $108,643 
Region
Americas
 86% 
 89% 
 87% 
EMEA
 12% 
 10% 
 12% 
Asia
 2% 
 1% 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 85% 
 83% 
 84% 
Non-investment-grade
 14% 
 16% 
 15% 
Other metrics
 1 %
–
–
Unrated
–
 1% 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
Other Collateralized
 $62,225 
 $23,731  $85,956 
Region
Americas
 89% 
 94% 
 90% 
EMEA
 10% 
 5% 
 9% 
Asia
 1% 
 1% 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 78% 
 80% 
 79% 
Non-investment-grade
 21% 
 18% 
 20% 
Unrated
 1% 
 2% 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above, credit exposure included loans and 
lending commitments extended to clients who warehouse 
assets of $31.67 billion as of December 2024 and $21.78 
billion as of December 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
117
Credit Cards and Installment Loans. We provide credit 
card loans (pursuant to revolving lines of credit) to 
consumers in the Americas. The credit card lines are 
cancellable by us and therefore do not result in credit 
exposure. We also have installment loans to consumers in the 
Americas but have ceased originating such loans. 
The tables below present our credit exposure from credit 
card funded loans and originated installment loans, and the 
concentration by the five most concentrated U.S. states. 
$ in millions
Credit Cards
As of December 2024
Loans, gross
 $21,403 
California
 17% 
Texas
 9% 
Florida
 9% 
New York
 8% 
Illinois
 4% 
Other
 53% 
Total
 100% 
As of December 2023
Loans, gross
 $19,361 
California
 17% 
Texas
 9% 
Florida
 8% 
New York
 8% 
Illinois
 4% 
Other
 54% 
Total
 100% 
$ in millions
Installment
As of December 2024
Loans, gross
 
$70 
New Jersey
 44% 
Minnesota
 20% 
California
 4% 
Texas
 3% 
New York
 3% 
Other
 26% 
Total
 100% 
As of December 2023
Loans, gross
 $3,298 
California
 8% 
Texas
 8% 
Florida
 7% 
New York
 5% 
New Jersey
 5% 
Other
 67% 
Total
 100% 
In addition, we had credit exposure of $2.25 billion as of 
December 2023 related to our commitments to extend 
unsecured installment loans to consumers.  
See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information about the credit quality indicators of 
credit card and installment loans. 
Other. Other includes unsecured loans extended to wealth 
management clients and unsecured consumer and credit card 
loans purchased by us. 
The table below presents our credit exposure from other 
loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by 
region, 
internally 
determined 
public 
rating 
agency 
equivalents and other credit metrics. 
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Total
As of December 2024
Other
 $2,079  
$872  
$2,951 
Region
Americas
 96% 
 99% 
 97% 
EMEA
 4% 
 1% 
 3% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 87% 
 90% 
 87% 
Non-investment-grade
 8% 
 10% 
 9% 
Other metrics
 5%  
– 
 4% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
Other
 
$1,613  
$888  
$2,501 
Region
Americas
 97% 
 100% 
 98% 
EMEA
 3%  
– 
 2% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade
 61% 
 87% 
 70% 
Non-investment-grade
 9% 
 13% 
 11% 
Other metrics
 30%  
– 
 19% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above, other metrics primarily includes consumer 
and credit card loans purchased by us. Our risk assessment 
process for such loans includes reviewing certain key metrics, 
such as expected cash flows, delinquency status and other 
risk factors. 
In addition, we also have credit exposure to other loans held 
for securitization of $1.22 billion as of both December 2024 
and December 2023. Such loans are included in trading assets 
in our consolidated balance sheets. 
Credit Hedges. We seek to mitigate the credit risk 
associated with our lending activities by obtaining credit 
protection on certain loans and lending commitments 
through credit default swaps, both single-name and index-
based contracts. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
118
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Securities Financing Transactions. We enter into 
securities financing transactions in order to, among other 
things, facilitate client activities, invest excess cash, acquire 
securities to cover short positions and finance certain 
activities. We bear credit risk related to resale agreements 
and securities borrowed only to the extent that cash 
advanced or the value of securities pledged or delivered to the 
counterparty exceeds the value of the collateral received. We 
also have credit exposure on repurchase agreements and 
securities loaned to the extent that the value of securities 
pledged or delivered to the counterparty for these 
transactions exceeds the amount of cash or collateral 
received. Securities collateral for these transactions primarily 
includes U.S. and non-U.S. government and agency 
obligations. 
The table below presents our credit exposure from securities 
financing transactions and the concentration by industry, 
region and internally determined public rating agency 
equivalents. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Securities Financing Transactions
 
$39,299 
 $40,201 
Industry
Financial Institutions
 39% 
 30% 
Funds
 27% 
 33% 
Municipalities & Nonprofit
 10% 
 7% 
Sovereign
 24% 
 29% 
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles)
 
– 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Region
Americas
 55% 
 45% 
EMEA
 31% 
 38% 
Asia
 14% 
 17% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA
 18% 
 14% 
AA
 22% 
 31% 
A
 42% 
 38% 
BBB
 9% 
 7% 
BB or lower
 9% 
 10% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
The table above reflects both netting agreements and 
collateral that we consider when determining credit risk. 
Other Credit Exposures. We are exposed to credit risk 
from our receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing 
organizations and customers and counterparties. Receivables 
from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations primarily 
consist of initial margin placed with clearing organizations 
and receivables related to sales of securities which have 
traded, but not yet settled. These receivables generally have 
minimal credit risk due to the low probability of clearing 
organization default and the short-term nature of receivables 
related to securities settlements. Receivables from customers 
and counterparties generally consist of collateralized 
receivables related to customer securities transactions and 
generally have minimal credit risk due to both the value of 
the collateral received and the short-term nature of these 
receivables. 
The table below presents our other credit exposures and the 
concentration by industry, region and internally determined 
public rating agency equivalents. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Other Credit Exposures
 
$48,013 
 $50,820 
Industry
Financial Institutions
 77% 
 80% 
Funds
 13% 
 13% 
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles)
 10% 
 7% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Region
Americas
 44% 
 35% 
EMEA
 41% 
 54% 
Asia
 15% 
 11% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA
 4% 
 2% 
AA
 49% 
 57% 
A
 24% 
 26% 
BBB
 8% 
 6% 
BB or lower
 14% 
 8% 
Unrated
 1% 
 1% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
The table above reflects collateral that we consider when 
determining credit risk. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
119
Selected Exposures 
We have credit and market exposures, as described below, 
that have had heightened focus given recent events and broad 
market concerns. Credit exposure represents the potential for 
loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of a 
counterparty or borrower. Market exposure represents the 
potential for loss in value of our long and short positions due 
to changes in market prices. 
Country Exposures. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has 
negatively affected the global economy and increased 
macroeconomic uncertainty. Our total credit exposure to 
Ukrainian counterparties or borrowers was not material as of 
December 2024. Our total market exposure to Ukrainian 
issuers as of December 2024 was $126 million, primarily to 
sovereign issuers. Such exposure consisted of $134 million 
related to debt and $(8) million related to credit derivatives. 
Our credit exposure to Russian counterparties or borrowers 
and our market exposure to Russian issuers were not 
material as of December 2024. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, 
Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information about our 
risks related to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
In addition, economic and/or political uncertainties in 
Ethiopia, Lebanon and Venezuela have led to concerns about 
their financial stability. Our credit exposure to counterparties 
or borrowers and our market exposure to issuers relating to 
each of these countries was not material as of December 
2024. 
We have a comprehensive framework to monitor, measure 
and assess our country exposures and to determine our risk 
appetite. We determine the country of risk by the location of 
the counterparty, issuer’s assets, where they generate revenue, 
the country in which they are headquartered, the jurisdiction 
where a claim against them could be enforced, and/or the 
government whose policies affect their ability to repay their 
obligations. We monitor our credit exposure to a specific 
country both at the individual counterparty level, as well as 
at the aggregate country level. See “Stress Tests” for 
information about stress tests that are designed to estimate 
the direct and indirect impact of events involving the above 
countries. 
Operational Risk Management 
Overview 
Operational risk is the risk of an adverse outcome resulting 
from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems 
or from external events. Our exposure to operational risk 
arises 
from 
routine 
processing 
errors, 
as 
well 
as 
extraordinary incidents, such as major systems failures or 
legal and regulatory matters, that could occur for us or our 
third-party vendors. 
Potential types of loss events related to internal and external 
operational risk include: 
• Execution, delivery and process management; 
• Business disruption and system failures; 
• Employment practices and workplace safety; 
• Clients, products and business practices; 
• Third-party risk, including vendor risk;
• Damage to physical assets; 
• Internal fraud; and 
• External fraud. 
Operational Risk, which is part of our second line of defense 
and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary 
responsibility for developing and implementing a formalized 
framework 
for 
assessing, 
monitoring 
and 
managing 
operational risk to support firmwide oversight and challenge 
of our global businesses, with the goal of maintaining our 
exposure to operational risk at levels that are within our risk 
appetite. 
Operational Risk Management Process 
Our process for managing operational risk includes the 
critical components of our risk management framework 
described in the “Overview and Structure of Risk 
Management,” including a comprehensive data collection 
process, as well as firmwide policies and procedures, for 
operational risk events. 
We combine top-down and bottom-up approaches to manage 
and measure operational risk. From a top-down perspective, 
our senior management assesses firmwide and business-level 
operational risk profiles. From a bottom-up perspective, our 
first and second lines of defense are responsible for risk 
identification and risk management on a day-to-day basis, 
including escalating operational risks and risk events to 
senior management. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
120
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
We seek to maintain a comprehensive control framework 
designed to provide a well-controlled environment to 
minimize operational risks. The Firmwide Compliance and 
Operational Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing 
compliance and operational risk for our business. 
Our operational risk management framework is designed to 
comply with the operational risk measurement rules under 
the Capital Framework and has evolved based on the 
changing needs of our businesses and regulatory guidance. 
We have established policies that require all employees and 
consultants to report and escalate operational risk events. 
When operational risk events are identified, our policies 
require that the events be documented and analyzed to 
determine whether changes are required in our systems and/
or processes to further mitigate the risk of future events. 
We use operational risk management applications to capture, 
analyze, aggregate and report operational risk event data and 
key metrics. One of our key risk identification and control 
assessment tools is an operational risk and control self-
assessment process, which is performed by our managers. 
This process consists of the identification and rating of 
operational risks, on a forward-looking basis, and the related 
controls. The results from this process are analyzed to 
evaluate operational risk exposures and identify businesses, 
activities or products with heightened levels of operational 
risk. 
Risk Measurement 
We measure our operational risk exposure using both 
statistical modeling and scenario analyses, which involve 
qualitative and quantitative assessments of internal and 
external operational risk event data and internal control 
factors for each of our businesses. Operational risk 
measurement also incorporates an assessment of business 
environment factors, including: 
• Evaluations of the complexity of our business activities; 
• The degree of automation in our processes; 
• New activity information; 
• The legal and regulatory environment; and 
• Changes in the markets for our products and services, 
including the diversity and sophistication of our customers 
and counterparties. 
The results from these scenario analyses are used to monitor 
changes in operational risk and to determine business lines 
that may have heightened exposure to operational risk. We 
also perform firmwide stress tests. See “Overview and 
Structure of Risk Management” for information about 
firmwide stress tests. 
Types of Operational Risks 
Increased 
reliance 
on 
technology 
and 
third-party 
relationships has resulted in increased operational risks, such 
as third-party risk, business resilience risk and cybersecurity 
risk. See “Cybersecurity Risk Management” for information 
about our cybersecurity risk management process. We 
manage third-party and business resilience risks as follows: 
Third-Party Risk. Third-party risk, including vendor risk, is 
the risk of an adverse impact due to reliance on third parties 
performing services or activities on our behalf. These risks 
may 
include 
legal, 
regulatory, 
information 
security, 
cybersecurity, reputational, operational or other risks 
inherent in engaging a third party. We identify, manage and 
report key third-party risks and conduct due diligence across 
multiple risk domains, including information security and 
cybersecurity, resilience and additional supply chain 
dependencies. 
We 
evaluate 
whether 
vendors 
design, 
implement, and maintain information security controls 
consistent with our security policies and standards. Vendors 
that access and process our information on their 
infrastructure external to our network are required to 
undergo an initial risk assessment, resulting in the assignment 
of a vendor inherent risk rating that is determined based on a 
number of factors, including the type of data stored and 
processed by a particular vendor. Subsequently, we conduct 
re-certifications 
at 
a 
depth 
and 
frequency 
that 
is 
commensurate with each vendor’s inherent risk rating as a 
component of our risk-based approach to vendor oversight. 
Vendors are required to agree to standard contractual 
provisions before receiving sensitive information from us. 
These provisions have specific information security control 
requirements, which apply to vendors that store, access, 
transmit or otherwise process sensitive information on our 
behalf. The Third-Party Risk Program monitors, reviews and 
reassesses third-party risks on an ongoing basis. See “Risk 
Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further 
information about third-party risk. 
Business Resilience Risk. Business resilience risk is the risk 
of disruption to our critical processes. We monitor threats 
and assess risks and seek to ensure our state of readiness in 
the event of a significant operational disruption to the normal 
operations of our critical functions or their dependencies, 
such as critical facilities, systems, third parties, data and/or 
personnel. Our resilience framework defines the fundamental 
principles for BCP and crisis management to ensure that 
critical functions can continue to operate in the event of a 
disruption. We seek to maintain a business continuity 
program that is comprehensive, consistent on a firmwide 
basis, and up-to-date, incorporating new information, 
including resilience capabilities. Our resilience assurance 
program encompasses testing of response and recovery 
strategies on a regular basis with the objective of minimizing 
and preventing significant operational disruptions. See 
“Business — Business Continuity and Information Security” 
in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for further information 
about business continuity.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
121
Cybersecurity Risk Management 
Overview
Cybersecurity risk is the risk of compromising the 
confidentiality, integrity or availability of our data and 
systems, leading to an adverse impact to us, our reputation, 
our clients and/or the broader financial system. We seek to 
minimize the occurrence and impact of unauthorized access, 
disruption or use of information and/or information systems. 
We deploy and operate preventive and detective controls and 
processes to mitigate emerging and evolving information 
security and cybersecurity threats, including monitoring our 
network for known vulnerabilities and signs of unauthorized 
attempts to access our data and systems. There is increased 
information risk through diversification of our data across 
external service providers, including use of a variety of cloud-
provided or -hosted services and applications. In addition, 
new AI technologies may increase the frequency and severity 
of cybersecurity attacks. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A 
of this Form 10-K for further information about information 
and cybersecurity risk. 
Cybersecurity Risk Management Process
Our cybersecurity risk management processes are integrated 
into our overall risk management processes described in the 
“Overview and Structure of Risk Management.” We have 
established an Information Security and Cybersecurity 
Program (the Cybersecurity Program), administered by 
Technology Risk within Engineering, and overseen by our 
CISO. This program is designed to identify, assess, document 
and mitigate threats, govern, establish and evaluate 
compliance with information security mandates, adopt and 
apply our security control framework, and prevent, detect 
and respond to security incidents. The Cybersecurity 
Program is periodically reviewed and modified to respond to 
changing threats and conditions. A dedicated Operational 
Risk team, which reports to the chief risk officer, provides 
oversight and challenge of the Cybersecurity Program, 
independent of Technology Risk, and assesses the operating 
effectiveness of the program against industry standard 
frameworks and Board risk appetite-approved operational 
risk limits and thresholds. 
Our process for managing cybersecurity risk includes the 
critical components of our risk management framework 
described in the “Overview and Structure of Risk 
Management,” as well as the following:
• Training and education, to enable our people to recognize 
information and cybersecurity threats and respond 
accordingly;
• Identity and access management, including entitlement 
management and production access;
• Application and software security, including software 
change management, open source software, and backup 
and restoration;
• Infrastructure security, including monitoring our network 
for known vulnerabilities and signs of unauthorized 
attempts to access our data and systems;
• Mobile security, including mobile applications;
• Data security, including cryptography and encryption, 
database security, data erasure and media disposal;
• Cloud computing, including governance and security of 
cloud 
applications, 
and 
software-as-a-service 
data 
onboarding;
• Technology operations, including change management, 
incident management, capacity and resilience; and
• Third-party 
risk 
management, 
including 
vendor 
management and governance, and cybersecurity and 
business resiliency on vendor assessments.
In conjunction with third-party vendors and consultants, we 
perform risk assessments to gauge the performance of the 
Cybersecurity Program, to estimate our risk profile and to 
assess compliance with relevant regulatory requirements. We 
perform periodic assessments of control efficacy through our 
internal risk and control self-assessment process, as well as a 
variety of external technical assessments, including external 
penetration tests and “red team” engagements where third 
parties test our defenses. The results of these risk 
assessments, together with control performance findings, are 
used to establish priorities, allocate resources, and identify 
and improve controls. We use third parties, such as outside 
forensics firms, to augment our cyber incident response 
capabilities. We have a vendor management program that 
documents a risk-based framework for managing third-party 
vendor relationships. Information security risk management 
is built into our vendor management process, which covers 
vendor selection, onboarding, performance monitoring and 
risk management. See “Third-Party Risk” for further 
information about vendor risk. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
122
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
During 2024, we did not identify any cybersecurity threats 
that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to 
materially affect our business strategy, results of operations 
or 
financial 
condition. 
Technology 
Risk 
monitors 
cybersecurity threats and risks from information security and 
cybersecurity matters on an ongoing basis, and allocates 
resources and directs operations in a manner designed to 
mitigate those risks. For example, in response to the 
proliferation of AI-enabled fraud and ransomware attacks 
that continue to be reported globally, we have emphasized 
phishing and cybersecurity training for our employees and 
allocated additional resources for business continuity. 
However, despite these efforts, we cannot eliminate all 
cybersecurity risks or provide assurances that we have not 
had occurrences of undetected cybersecurity incidents. 
Governance
The Board, both directly and through its committees, 
including its Risk Committee and Technology Risk 
Subcommittee, oversees our risk management policies and 
practices, including cybersecurity risks, and information 
security and cybersecurity matters. Our chief risk officer, 
chief information officer and chief technology officer, among 
others, periodically brief the Board on operational and 
technology risks, including cybersecurity risks, relevant to us. 
The Board also receives regular briefings from our CISO on a 
range of cybersecurity-related topics, including the status of 
our Cybersecurity Program, emerging cybersecurity threats, 
mitigation strategies and related regulatory engagements. In 
addition, these are topics on which various directors 
maintain an ongoing dialogue with our CISO, chief 
information officer and chief technology officer. 
Our CISO is responsible for managing and implementing the 
Cybersecurity Program and reports directly to our chief 
information officer. Our CISO oversees our Technology Risk 
team, which assesses and manages material risks from 
cybersecurity threats, sets firmwide control requirements, 
assesses adherence to controls, and oversees incident 
detection and response.
In addition, we have a series of committees and steering 
groups that oversee the implementation of our cybersecurity 
risk management strategy and framework. These committees 
and steering groups are informed about cybersecurity 
incidents and risks by designated members of Technology 
Risk, who periodically report to these committees and 
steering groups about the Cybersecurity Program, including 
the efforts of the Technology Risk teams to prevent, detect, 
mitigate and remediate incidents and threats. These 
committees and steering groups enable formal escalation and 
reporting of risks, and our CISO and other members of 
Technology Risk provide regular briefings to senior 
management.
The Firmwide Technology Risk Committee is responsible for 
reviewing matters related to the design, development, 
deployment and use of technology. This committee oversees 
cybersecurity matters, as well as technology risk management 
frameworks 
and 
methodologies, 
and 
monitors 
their 
effectiveness. This committee is co-chaired by our CISO and 
our chief technology officer, and reports to the Firmwide 
Enterprise Risk Committee. To assist the Firmwide 
Technology Risk Committee in carrying out its mandate, the 
Firmwide 
Artificial 
Intelligence 
Risk 
and 
Controls 
Committee, which oversees risks associated with the use of 
AI, reports to the Firmwide Technology Risk Committee. See 
“Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for further 
information about this committee. 
The Digital Risk Office Steering Group oversees Engineering 
risk decisions, monitors control performance and reviews 
approaches to comply with current and emerging regulation 
applicable to Engineering. This steering group is co-chaired 
by our CISO, chief technology officer and chief digital risk 
officer, and reports to the Firmwide Technology Risk 
Committee. 
Our CISO, senior management within Technology Risk and 
Operational Risk, as well as management personnel 
overseeing the Cybersecurity Program, all have substantial 
relevant expertise in the areas of information security and 
cybersecurity risk management. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
123
Model Risk Management 
Overview 
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from 
decisions made based on model outputs that may be incorrect 
or used inappropriately. We rely on quantitative models 
across our business activities primarily to value certain 
financial assets and liabilities, to monitor and manage our 
risk, and to measure and monitor our regulatory capital. 
Model Risk, which is part of our second line of defense, is 
independent of our model developers, model owners and 
model users, and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary 
responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing our 
model risk by providing firmwide oversight and challenge 
across our global businesses. 
Our model risk management framework is managed through 
a governance structure and risk management controls, which 
encompass standards designed to ensure we maintain a 
comprehensive model inventory, including risk assessment 
and classification, sound model development practices, 
independent review and model-specific usage controls. The 
Firmwide Model Risk Control Committee oversees our 
model risk management framework. 
Model Review and Validation Process 
Model Risk consists of quantitative professionals who 
perform an independent review, validation and approval of 
our models. This review includes an analysis of the model 
documentation, independent testing, an assessment of the 
appropriateness of the methodology used, and verification of 
compliance with model development and implementation 
standards. 
We regularly refine and enhance our models to reflect 
changes in market or economic conditions and our business 
mix. All models are reviewed on an annual basis, and new 
models or significant changes to existing models and their 
assumptions are approved prior to implementation. 
The model validation process incorporates a review of 
models and trade and risk parameters across a broad range of 
scenarios (including extreme conditions) in order to critically 
evaluate and verify: 
• The 
model’s 
conceptual 
soundness, 
including 
the 
reasonableness of model assumptions, and suitability for 
intended use; 
• The testing strategy utilized by the model developers to 
ensure that the models function as intended; 
• The suitability of the calculation techniques incorporated 
in the model; 
• The model’s accuracy in reflecting the characteristics of the 
related product and its significant risks; 
• The model’s consistency with models for similar products; 
and 
• The 
model’s 
sensitivity 
to 
input 
parameters 
and 
assumptions. 
See “Critical Accounting Policies — Fair Value — Review of 
Valuation Models,” “Liquidity Risk Management,” “Market 
Risk Management,” “Credit Risk Management” and 
“Operational Risk Management” for further information 
about our use of models within these areas. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
124
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Other Risk Management 
In addition to the areas of risks discussed above, we also 
manage other risks, including capital, climate, compliance, 
conflicts and reputational. These areas of risks are discussed 
below. 
Capital Risk Management 
Capital risk is the risk that our capital is insufficient to 
support our business activities under normal and stressed 
market conditions or we face capital reductions or RWA 
increases, including from new or revised rules or changes in 
interpretations of existing rules, and are therefore unable to 
meet our internal capital targets or external regulatory 
capital requirements. Capital adequacy is of critical 
importance to us. Accordingly, we have in place a 
comprehensive capital management policy that provides a 
framework, defines objectives and establishes guidelines to 
maintain an appropriate level and composition of capital in 
both business-as-usual and stressed conditions. Our capital 
management framework is designed to provide us with the 
information needed to identify and comprehensively manage 
risk, and develop and apply projected stress scenarios that 
capture idiosyncratic vulnerabilities with a goal of holding 
sufficient capital to remain adequately capitalized even after 
experiencing a severe stress event. See “Capital Management 
and Regulatory Capital” for further information about our 
capital management process. 
We have established a comprehensive governance structure to 
manage and oversee our day-to-day capital management 
activities and to ensure compliance with capital rules and 
related policies. Our capital management activities are 
overseen by the Board and its committees. The Board is 
responsible for approving our annual capital plan and the 
Risk Committee of the Board approves our capital 
management policy, which details the risk committees and 
members of senior management who are responsible for the 
ongoing monitoring of our capital adequacy and evaluation 
of current and future regulatory capital requirements, the 
review of the results of our capital planning and stress tests 
processes, and the results of our capital models. In addition, 
our risk committees and senior management are responsible 
for the review of our contingency capital plan, key capital 
adequacy metrics, including regulatory capital ratios, and 
capital plan metrics, such as the payout ratio, as well as 
monitoring capital targets and potential breaches of capital 
requirements. 
Our process for managing capital risk also includes 
independent oversight by Risk that assesses our capital 
management framework, regulatory capital policies and 
related interpretations and escalates certain interpretations to 
senior management and/or the appropriate risk committee. 
This oversight includes, among other things, independent 
review and challenge of our capital ratio targets, planned 
capital actions and regulatory capital calculations; analysis of 
the related documentation; independent testing; and an 
assessment of the appropriateness of the calculations and 
their alignment with the relevant regulatory capital rules. 
Climate-Related and Environmental Risk Management 
We categorize climate-related and environmental risks into 
physical risk and transition risk. Physical risk is the risk that 
asset values may decline or operations may be disrupted as a 
result of changes in the climate, while transition risk is the 
risk that asset values may decline because of changes in 
climate policies or changes in the underlying economy due to 
decarbonization. 
Climate-related and environmental risks manifest in different 
ways across our businesses. We have continued to make 
significant enhancements to our climate risk management 
framework, including steps to further integrate climate risk 
into our broader risk management processes. We have 
integrated oversight of climate-related risks into our risk 
management governance structure, from senior management 
to our Board and its committees, including the Risk and 
Public Responsibilities committees. The Risk Committee of 
the Board oversees firmwide financial and nonfinancial risks, 
which include climate risk, and, as part of its oversight, 
receives updates on our risk management approach to climate 
risk, including our approaches towards scenario analysis and 
integration into existing risk management processes. The 
Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board assists the 
Board in its oversight of our firmwide sustainability strategy 
and sustainability issues affecting us, including with respect 
to climate change. As part of its oversight, the Public 
Responsibilities Committee receives periodic updates on our 
sustainability strategy and disclosures, and also periodically 
reviews our governance and related policies and processes for 
climate and other sustainability-related matters. Senior 
management within Risk, in coordination with senior 
management in our revenue-producing units, is responsible 
for the development of the climate-related and environmental 
risk program. The objective of this program is to integrate 
climate-related and environmental risks into existing risk 
disciplines and business considerations, such as the 
integration of climate risk into our credit evaluation and 
underwriting processes for select industries.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
125
See “Business — Sustainability” in Part I, Item 1 and “Risk 
Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for information 
about our sustainability initiatives, including in relation to 
climate transition. 
Compliance Risk Management 
Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, 
material financial loss or damage to our reputation arising 
from our failure to comply with the requirements of 
applicable laws, rules and regulations, and our internal 
policies and procedures. Compliance risk is inherent in all 
activities through which we conduct our businesses. Our 
Compliance Risk Management Program, administered by 
Compliance, assesses our compliance, regulatory and 
reputational risk; monitors for compliance with new or 
amended laws, rules and regulations; designs and implements 
controls, policies, procedures and training; conducts 
independent testing; investigates, surveils and monitors for 
compliance risks and breaches; and leads our responses to 
regulatory examinations, audits and inquiries. We monitor 
and review business practices to assess whether they meet or 
exceed minimum regulatory and legal standards in all 
markets and jurisdictions in which we conduct business. 
Conflicts Management 
Conflicts of interest and our approach to dealing with them 
are fundamental to our client relationships, our reputation 
and our long-term success. The term “conflict of interest” 
does not have a universally accepted meaning, and conflicts 
can arise in many forms within a business or between 
businesses. The responsibility for identifying potential 
conflicts, as well as complying with our policies and 
procedures, is shared by all of our employees. 
We have a multilayered approach to resolving conflicts and 
addressing reputational risk. Our senior management 
oversees policies related to conflicts resolution and, in 
conjunction 
with 
Conflicts 
Resolution, 
Legal 
and 
Compliance, and internal committees, formulates policies, 
standards and principles, and assists in making judgments 
regarding the appropriate resolution of particular conflicts. 
Resolving potential conflicts necessarily depends on the facts 
and circumstances of a particular situation and the 
application of experienced and informed judgment. 
As a general matter, Conflicts Resolution reviews financing 
and advisory assignments in Global Banking & Markets and 
certain of our investing, lending and other activities. In 
addition, we have various transaction oversight committees 
that also review new underwritings, loans, investments and 
structured products. These groups and committees work with 
internal and external counsel and Compliance to evaluate 
and address any actual or potential conflicts. The head of 
Conflicts Resolution reports to our chief legal officer, who 
reports to our chief executive officer. 
We regularly assess our policies and procedures that address 
conflicts of interest in an effort to conduct our business in 
accordance with the highest ethical standards and in 
compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. 
Reputational Risk Management
Reputational risk is the potential risk that negative publicity 
regarding our business practices, whether true or not, will 
cause a decline in our customer base, costly litigation or 
revenue reductions. Our reputation is critical to effectively 
serving our clients and fostering and maintaining long-term 
client relationships, and it is integral to how we are viewed 
by our key stakeholders.
In evaluating business opportunities, reputational risk is one 
of the most significant components we consider. We evaluate 
the ethics, suitability and transparency of transactions 
undertaken by us. Our employees are responsible for 
considering the reputational impacts that our business 
activities may have. 
We have implemented a comprehensive program designed to 
monitor reputational risk. The Firmwide Reputational Risk 
Committee, which reports into the Firmwide Enterprise Risk 
Committee, is responsible for assessing reputational risks 
arising from business opportunities that have been identified 
as having potential heightened reputational risk. This 
committee is also responsible for overseeing client-related 
business standards and addressing client-related reputational 
risk and considers, among other things, the potential effects 
any business opportunities, products, transactions, new 
activities, acquisitions, dispositions or investments could 
have on our reputation. 
For further information about our risk management 
processes, 
see 
“Overview 
and 
Structure 
of 
Risk 
Management” and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this 
Form 10-K.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
126
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative 
Disclosures About Market Risk
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 
are set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk 
Management” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
Item 8. Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data
Management’s Report on Internal Control 
over Financial Reporting
Management of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., together 
with its consolidated subsidiaries (the firm), is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over 
financial reporting. The firm’s internal control over financial 
reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the 
firm’s principal executive and principal financial officers to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of the firm’s financial 
statements for external reporting purposes in accordance 
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As of December 31, 2024, management conducted an 
assessment of the firm’s internal control over financial 
reporting based on the framework established in Internal 
Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management 
has determined that the firm’s internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 31, 2024 was effective.
Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies 
and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and the directors of the 
firm; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or 
disposition of the firm’s assets that could have a material 
effect on our financial statements.
The firm’s internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 
31, 
2024 
has 
been 
audited 
by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP 
(PCAOB 
ID 
238), 
an 
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its 
report appearing below, which expresses an unqualified 
opinion on the effectiveness of the firm’s internal control over 
financial reporting as of December 31, 2024.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
127
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc.
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control 
over Financial Reporting 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance 
sheets of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries 
(the Company) as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the 
related 
consolidated 
statements 
of 
earnings, 
of 
comprehensive income, of changes in shareholders’ equity 
and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period 
ended December 31, 2024, including the related notes 
(collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial 
statements”). We also have audited the Company’s internal 
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, 
based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred 
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of the Company as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, 
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of 
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2024 in 
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in 
the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the 
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective 
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control – 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. 
Basis for Opinions 
The Company’s management is responsible for these 
consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective 
internal control over financial reporting, and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over 
financial 
reporting, 
included 
in 
the 
accompanying 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the 
Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the 
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on 
our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with 
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with 
respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal 
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of 
the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and 
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements are free of 
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and 
whether effective internal control over financial reporting 
was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included 
performing procedures to assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, 
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures 
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included 
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts 
and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our 
audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements. Our audit of internal control over 
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of 
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk 
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control 
based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included 
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary 
in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinions. 
Report  of  Independent  Registered  Public 
Accounting Firm
128
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal control over financial reporting includes those 
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of 
the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over 
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future 
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters 
arising from the current period audit of the consolidated 
financial statements that were communicated or required to 
be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to 
accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated 
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially 
challenging, 
subjective, 
or 
complex 
judgments. 
The 
communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any 
way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, 
taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the 
critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on 
the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to 
which they relate. 
Valuation of Certain Level 3 Financial Instruments 
As described in Notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements, as of December 31, 2024, the Company carries 
financial instruments at fair value, which includes $20.4 
billion of financial assets and $25.7 billion of financial 
liabilities classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (a 
portion of which relates to certain equity securities and 
hybrid financial instruments), as one or more inputs to the 
financial instrument’s valuation technique are significant and 
unobservable. Significant unobservable inputs used by 
management to value certain of the level 3 financial 
instruments included market multiples, discount rates, and 
capitalization rates for equity securities; and correlation and 
volatility for hybrid financial instruments.  
The principal considerations for our determination that 
performing procedures relating to the valuation of certain 
level 3 financial instruments is a critical audit matter are (i) 
the significant judgment by management when developing 
the fair value estimate of certain level 3 financial instruments, 
(ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort 
in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence 
related to the significant unobservable inputs related to 
market multiples, discount rates, and capitalization rates for 
equity securities; and correlation for hybrid financial 
instruments, and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of 
professionals with specialized skill and knowledge. 
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and 
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. 
These procedures included testing the effectiveness of 
controls relating to the valuation of financial instruments, 
including controls over the methods and aforementioned 
significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of 
certain level 3 financial instruments. These procedures also 
included, among others, testing the completeness and 
accuracy of data used by management, as well as (i) testing 
management’s process for developing the fair value estimate 
of certain level 3 financial instruments, (ii) evaluating the 
appropriateness of the techniques used by management, (iii) 
evaluating the reasonableness of the aforementioned 
significant unobservable inputs, and either (iv) the use of 
professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in 
evaluating (a) the appropriateness of the techniques used by 
management 
and 
(b) 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
the 
aforementioned significant unobservable inputs, or (v) the 
use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to 
assist in evaluating the reasonableness of management’s 
estimate by (a) evaluating the appropriateness of the 
techniques used by management and (b) developing an 
independent estimate of fair value for a sample of certain 
level 
3 
securities 
using 
independently 
determined 
assumptions, and comparing the independent range of prices 
to management’s estimate.
Report  of  Independent  Registered  Public 
Accounting Firm
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
129
Allowance for Credit Losses - Wholesale Loan Portfolio
As described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial 
statements, the allowance for credit losses was $4.7 billion as 
of December 31, 2024, of which $2.1 billion relates to the 
wholesale loan portfolio. The allowance for credit losses for 
wholesale loans that exhibit similar risk characteristics is 
measured using a modeled approach. These models 
determine the probability of default and loss given default 
based on various risk factors, including internal credit 
ratings, industry default and loss data, expected life and 
macroeconomic indicators (the most significant to the 
forecast model being the forecasted U.S. unemployment and 
U.S. GDP growth rates), the borrower’s capacity to meet its 
financial obligations, the borrower’s country of risk and 
industry, loan seniority and collateral type. The allowance 
for credit losses also includes qualitative components which 
allow management to reflect the uncertain nature of 
economic forecasting, capture uncertainty regarding model 
inputs, and account for model imprecision and concentration 
risk. 
The principal considerations for our determination that 
performing procedures relating to the allowance for credit 
losses for the wholesale loan portfolio is a critical audit 
matter are (i) the significant judgment by management when 
developing the allowance for credit losses for the wholesale 
loan portfolio using a modeled approach, (ii) a high degree of 
auditor judgment and effort in performing procedures and 
evaluating audit evidence related to management’s internal 
credit ratings, forecasted U.S. unemployment and U.S. GDP 
growth rates, and the qualitative component to reflect the 
uncertain nature of economic forecasting, and (iii) the audit 
effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill 
and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and 
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. 
These procedures included testing the effectiveness of 
controls relating to the allowance for credit losses for the 
wholesale loan portfolio using a modeled approach, 
including controls over the determination of management’s 
internal credit ratings, forecasted U.S. unemployment and 
U.S. GDP growth rates, and the qualitative component to 
reflect the uncertain nature of economic forecasting. These 
procedures also included, among others, (i) testing 
management’s process for developing the allowance for credit 
losses for the wholesale loan portfolio using a modeled 
approach (ii) testing the completeness and accuracy of data 
used in the estimate, and (iii) the involvement of 
professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in 
evaluating (a) the appropriateness of the forecast model and 
methodology used by management (b) the reasonableness of 
management’s internal credit ratings, forecasted U.S. 
unemployment and U.S. GDP growth rates, and (c) the 
reasonableness of the qualitative component to reflect the 
uncertain nature of economic forecasting. 
/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 26, 2025
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1922.
Report  of  Independent  Registered  Public 
Accounting Firm
130
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Year Ended December
in millions, except per share amounts
2024
2023
2022
Revenues
 
 
Investment banking
$ 7,738 
$ 6,218 $ 7,360 
Investment management
 10,596 
 
9,532  
9,005 
Commissions and fees
 
4,086 
 
3,789  
4,034 
Market making
 18,390 
 18,238  18,634 
Other principal transactions
 
4,646 
 
2,126  
654 
Total non-interest revenues
 45,456 
 39,903  39,687 
Interest income
 81,397 
 68,515  29,024 
Interest expense
 73,341 
 62,164  21,346 
Net interest income
 
8,056 
 
6,351  
7,678 
Total net revenues
 53,512 
 46,254  47,365 
Provision for credit losses
 
1,348 
 
1,028  
2,715 
Operating expenses
 
 
Compensation and benefits
 16,706 
 15,499  15,148 
Transaction based
 
6,724 
 
5,698  
5,312 
Market development
 
646 
 
629  
812 
Communications and technology
 
1,991 
 
1,919  
1,808 
Depreciation and amortization
 
2,392 
 
4,856  
2,455 
Occupancy
 
973 
 
1,053  
1,026 
Professional fees
 
1,652 
 
1,623  
1,887 
Other expenses
 
2,683 
 
3,210  
2,716 
Total operating expenses
 33,767 
 34,487  31,164 
Pre-tax earnings
 18,397 
 10,739  13,486 
Provision for taxes
 
4,121 
 
2,223  
2,225 
Net earnings
 14,276 
 
8,516  11,261 
Preferred stock dividends
 
751 
 
609  
497 
Net earnings applicable to common shareholders
$ 13,525 
$ 7,907 $ 10,764 
Earnings per common share
 
 
Basic
$ 41.07 
$ 23.05 $ 30.42 
Diluted
$ 40.54 
$ 22.87 $ 30.06 
Average common shares
 
 
Basic
328.1
340.8
352.1
Diluted
333.6
345.8
358.1
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Net earnings
$ 14,276 
$ 8,516 $ 11,261 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) adjustments, net of tax:
 
 
Currency translation
 
32 
 
(62)  
(47) 
Debt valuation adjustment
 
(263)  
(1,015)  
1,403 
Pension and postretirement liabilities
 
47 
 
(76)  
(172) 
Available-for-sale securities
 
401 
 
1,245  
(2,126) 
Cash flow hedges
 
(1)  
–  
– 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
 
216 
 
92  
(942) 
Comprehensive income
$ 14,492 
$ 8,608 $ 10,319 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
131
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 182,092 $ 241,577 
Collateralized agreements:
Securities purchased under agreements to resell (includes $179,793 and $223,543 at fair value)
 
180,062  
223,805 
Securities borrowed (includes $46,902 and $44,930 at fair value)
 
194,645  
199,420 
Customer and other receivables (includes $23 and $23 at fair value)
 
133,717  
132,495 
Trading assets (at fair value and includes $148,417 and $110,567 pledged as collateral)
 
570,555  
477,510 
Investments: 
Available-for-sale securities (at fair value; amortized cost of $80,777 and $51,001)
 
79,458  
49,141 
Held-to-maturity securities
 
78,713  
70,310 
Other investments (includes $25,284 and $26,626 at fair value)
 
26,343  
27,388 
Loans (net of allowance of $4,666 and $5,050, and includes $5,460 and $6,506 at fair value)
 
196,200  
183,358 
Other assets (includes $194 and $366 at fair value)
 
34,187  
36,590 
Total assets
$ 1,675,972 $ 1,641,594 
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Deposits (includes $44,855 and $29,460 at fair value)
$ 433,013 $ 428,417 
Collateralized financings:
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (at fair value)
 
274,380  
249,887 
Securities loaned (includes $10,246 and $8,934 at fair value)
 
56,060  
60,483 
Other secured financings (includes $27,985 and $12,554 at fair value)
 
28,150  
13,194 
Customer and other payables
 
223,255  
230,728 
Trading liabilities (at fair value)
 
202,555  
200,355 
Unsecured short-term borrowings (includes $50,367 and $46,127 at fair value)
 
69,709  
75,945 
Unsecured long-term borrowings (includes $89,189 and $86,410 at fair value)
 
242,634  
241,877 
Other liabilities (includes $84 and $266 at fair value)
 
24,220  
23,803 
Total liabilities
 1,553,976  1,524,689 
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock; aggregate liquidation preference of $13,253 and $11,203
 
13,253  
11,203 
Common stock; 927,499,667 and 922,895,030 shares issued, and 310,653,708 and 323,376,354 shares outstanding  
9  
9 
Share-based awards
 
5,148  
5,121 
Nonvoting common stock; no shares issued and outstanding
 
–  
– 
Additional paid-in capital
 
61,376  
60,247 
Retained earnings
 
153,412  
143,688 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
(2,702)  
(2,918) 
Stock held in treasury, at cost; 616,845,961 and 599,518,678 shares
 
(108,500)  
(100,445) 
Total shareholders’ equity
 
121,996  
116,905 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
$ 1,675,972 $ 1,641,594 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
132
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Preferred stock
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 11,203 
$ 10,703 $ 10,703 
Issued
 
4,250 
 
1,500  
– 
Redeemed
 
(2,200)  
(1,000)  
– 
Ending balance
 
13,253 
 
11,203  
10,703 
Common stock
Beginning balance
 
9 
 
9  
9 
Issued
 
– 
 
–  
– 
Ending balance
 
9 
 
9  
9 
Share-based awards
Beginning balance
 
5,121 
 
5,696  
4,211 
Issuance and amortization of share-based awards
 
2,741 
 
2,098  
4,110 
Delivery of common stock underlying share-based awards
 
(2,483)  
(2,504)  
(2,468) 
Forfeiture of share-based awards
 
(231)  
(169)  
(157) 
Ending balance
 
5,148 
 
5,121  
5,696 
Additional paid-in capital
Beginning balance
 
60,247 
 
59,050  
56,396 
Delivery of common stock underlying share-based awards
 
2,476 
 
2,549  
2,516 
Cancellation of share-based awards in satisfaction of withholding tax requirements
 
(1,331)  
(1,345)  
(1,591) 
Preferred stock issuance costs 
 
10 
 
5  
– 
Issuance of common stock in connection with acquisition
 
– 
 
–  
1,730 
Other
 
(26)  
(12)  
(1) 
Ending balance
 
61,376 
 
60,247  
59,050 
Retained earnings
 
Beginning balance
 143,688 
 139,372  131,811 
Net earnings
 
14,276 
 
8,516  
11,261 
Dividends and dividend equivalents declared on common stock and share-based awards
 
(3,801)  
(3,591)  
(3,203) 
Dividends declared on preferred stock
 
(717)  
(599)  
(497) 
Preferred stock redemption premium
 
(34)  
(10)  
– 
Ending balance
 153,412 
 143,688  139,372 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)
Beginning balance
 
(2,918)  
(3,010)  
(2,068) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
 
216 
 
92  
(942) 
Ending balance
 
(2,702)  
(2,918)  
(3,010) 
Stock held in treasury, at cost
Beginning balance
 (100,445)  (94,631)  (91,136) 
Repurchased
 
(8,000)  
(5,796)  
(3,500) 
Reissued
 
33 
 
29  
20 
Other
 
(88)  
(47)  
(15) 
Ending balance
 (108,500)  (100,445)  (94,631) 
Total shareholders’ equity
$ 121,996 
$ 116,905 $ 117,189 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity 
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
133
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Cash flows from operating activities
 
 
Net earnings
$ 
14,276 
$ 
8,516 $ 
11,261 
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by/(used for) operating activities:
 
 
Depreciation and amortization
 
2,392 
 
4,856  
2,455 
Deferred income taxes
 
(800)  
(1,360)  
(2,412) 
Share-based compensation
 
2,663 
 
2,085  
4,083 
Provision for credit losses
 
1,348 
 
1,028  
2,715 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 
 
Customer and other receivables and payables, net
 
(8,367)  
(28,219)  
35,014 
Collateralized transactions (excluding other secured financings), net
 
68,582 
 
160,227  (100,996) 
Trading assets
 
(86,991)  (163,807)  
45,278 
Trading liabilities
 
(212)  
5,751  
8,062 
Loans held for sale, net
 
537 
 
1,635  
3,161 
Other, net
 
(6,640)  
(3,299)  
87 
Net cash provided by/(used for) operating activities
 
(13,212)  
(12,587)  
8,708 
Cash flows from investing activities
 
 
Purchase of property, leasehold improvements and equipment
 
(2,091)  
(2,316)  
(3,748) 
Proceeds from sales of property, leasehold improvements and equipment
 
1,613 
 
3,278  
2,706 
Net cash received from/(used for) business dispositions or acquisitions
 
3,622 
 
487  
(2,115) 
Available-for-sale securities:
Purchases
 
(60,852)  
(9,185)  
(3,753) 
Proceeds from sales
 
19,005 
 
3,161  
2 
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities
 
12,809 
 
8,130  
25 
Held-to-maturity securities: 
Purchases
 
(23,018)  
(26,238)  
(50,099) 
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities
 
15,549 
 
8,604  
3,671 
Other investments:
Purchases
 
(8,226)  
(4,833)  
(6,684) 
Proceeds from sales, paydowns and maturities
 
9,010 
 
6,953  
9,263 
Loans (excluding loans held for sale), net
 
(17,045)  
(5,353)  
(25,228) 
Net cash used for investing activities
 
(49,624)  
(17,312)  
(75,960) 
Cash flows from financing activities
 
 
Unsecured short-term borrowings, net
 
934 
 
2,050  
321 
Other secured financings (short-term), net
 
13,707 
 
673  
(2,283) 
Proceeds from issuance of other secured financings (long-term)
 
5,243 
 
3,047  
1,800 
Repayment of other secured financings (long-term), including the current portion
 
(2,036)  
(3,570)  
(3,407) 
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured long-term borrowings
 
67,252 
 
47,153  
84,522 
Repayment of unsecured long-term borrowings, including the current portion
 
(74,519)  
(54,066)  
(42,806) 
Derivative contracts with a financing element, net
 
2,390 
 
3,280  
1,797 
Deposits, net
 
5,894 
 
39,723  
28,074 
Preferred stock redemption
 
(2,200)  
(1,000)  
– 
Common stock repurchased
 
(8,000)  
(5,796)  
(3,500) 
Settlement of share-based awards in satisfaction of withholding tax requirements
 
(1,331)  
(1,345)  
(1,595) 
Dividends and dividend equivalents paid on common stock, preferred stock and share-based awards
 
(4,497)  
(4,189)  
(3,682) 
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock, net of issuance costs
 
4,239 
 
1,496  
– 
Other financing, net
 
247 
 
344  
361 
Net cash provided by financing activities
 
7,323 
 
27,800  
59,602 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
 
(3,972)  
1,851  
(11,561) 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
 
(59,485)  
(248)  
(19,211) 
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning balance
 
241,577 
 
241,825  
261,036 
Cash and cash equivalents, ending balance
$ 182,092 
$ 241,577 $ 241,825 
Supplemental disclosures:
 
 
Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest
$ 
72,623 
$ 
60,026 $ 
19,022 
Cash payments for income taxes, net
$ 
3,673 
$ 
2,389 $ 
4,555 
See Notes 9, 12 and 16 for information about non-cash activities. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
134
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 1. 
Description of Business 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc. or parent 
company), a Delaware corporation, together with its 
consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the firm), is a leading 
global financial institution that delivers a broad range of 
financial services to a large and diversified client base that 
includes corporations, financial institutions, governments 
and individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered 
in New York and maintains offices in all major financial 
centers around the world. 
The firm manages and reports its activities in the following 
three business segments:
Global Banking & Markets
The firm provides a broad range of services to a diverse 
group of corporations, financial institutions, investment 
funds and governments. Services include strategic advisory 
assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, 
divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and 
spin-offs, and equity and debt underwriting of public 
offerings and private placements. The firm facilitates client 
transactions and makes markets in fixed income, equity, 
currency and commodity products. In addition, the firm 
makes markets in and clears institutional client transactions 
on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide 
and provides prime financing (including securities lending, 
margin lending and swaps), portfolio financing and other 
types of equity financing (including securities-based loans to 
individuals). The firm also provides lending to corporate 
clients, 
including 
through 
relationship 
lending 
and 
acquisition 
financing, 
and 
secured 
lending, 
through 
structured credit and asset-backed lending. In addition, the 
firm provides commodity financing to clients through 
structured transactions and also provides financing through 
securities purchased under agreements to resell (resale 
agreements). The firm also makes equity and debt 
investments related to Global Banking & Markets activities.
Asset & Wealth Management 
The firm manages assets and offers investment products 
across all major asset classes to a diverse set of clients, both 
institutional and individuals, including through a network of 
third-party distributors around the world. The firm also 
provides investing and wealth advisory solutions, including 
financial planning and counseling, and executing brokerage 
transactions for wealth management clients. The firm issues 
loans to wealth management clients and raises deposits 
through its consumer banking digital platform, Marcus by 
Goldman Sachs (Marcus), and through its private bank. The 
firm makes equity investments, which include investing 
activities related to public and private equity investments in 
corporate, real estate and infrastructure assets, as well as 
investments through consolidated investment entities (CIEs), 
substantially all of which are engaged in real estate 
investment activities. The firm also invests in debt 
instruments and engages in lending activities to middle-
market clients, and provides financing for real estate and 
other assets. 
Platform Solutions
The 
firm 
issues 
credit 
cards 
through 
partnership 
arrangements, raises deposits from Apple Card customers 
and provides transaction banking and other services, such as 
deposit-taking, 
payment 
solutions 
and 
other 
cash 
management services, for corporate and institutional clients. 
See Note 9 for information about the General Motors (GM) 
credit card program and the firm’s seller financing loans. 
 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
135
Note 2. 
Basis of Presentation 
These consolidated financial statements are prepared in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in 
the United States (U.S. GAAP) and include the accounts of 
Group Inc. and all other entities in which the firm has a 
controlling financial interest. Intercompany transactions and 
balances have been eliminated. 
All references to 2024, 2023 and 2022 refer to the firm’s years 
ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December  31, 
2024, December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, 
respectively. Any reference to a future year refers to a year 
ending on December 31 of that year. Certain reclassifications 
have been made to previously reported amounts to conform 
to the current presentation. 
Note 3. 
Significant Accounting Policies 
The firm’s significant accounting policies include when and 
how to measure the fair value of assets and liabilities, 
measuring the allowance for credit losses on loans and 
lending commitments accounted for at amortized cost, and 
when to consolidate an entity. See Note 4 for policies on fair 
value measurements, Note 9 for policies on the allowance for 
credit losses, and below and Note 17 for policies on 
consolidation accounting. All other significant accounting 
policies are either described below or included in the 
following footnotes: 
Fair Value Measurements
Note 4
Fair Value Hierarchy
Note 5
Trading Assets and Liabilities
Note 6
Derivatives and Hedging Activities
Note 7
Investments
Note 8
Loans
Note 9
Fair Value Option
Note 10
Collateralized Agreements and Financings
Note 11
Other Assets
Note 12
Deposits
Note 13
Unsecured Borrowings
Note 14
Other Liabilities
Note 15
Securitization Activities
Note 16
Variable Interest Entities
Note 17
Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees
Note 18
Shareholders’ Equity
Note 19
Regulation and Capital Adequacy
Note 20
Earnings Per Common Share
Note 21
Transactions with Affiliated Funds
Note 22
Interest Income and Interest Expense
Note 23
Income Taxes
Note 24
Business Segments
Note 25
Credit Concentrations
Note 26
Legal Proceedings
Note 27
Employee Benefit Plans
Note 28
Employee Incentive Plans
Note 29
Parent Company
Note 30
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
136
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Consolidation 
The firm consolidates entities in which the firm has a 
controlling financial interest. The firm determines whether it 
has a controlling financial interest in an entity by first 
evaluating whether the entity is a voting interest entity or a 
variable interest entity (VIE). 
Voting Interest Entities. Voting interest entities are entities 
in which (i) the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to 
enable the entity to finance its activities independently and 
(ii) the equity holders have the power to direct the activities 
of the entity that most significantly impact its economic 
performance, the obligation to absorb the losses of the entity 
and the right to receive the residual returns of the entity. The 
usual condition for a controlling financial interest in a voting 
interest entity is ownership of a majority voting interest. If 
the firm has a controlling majority voting interest in a voting 
interest entity, the entity is consolidated. 
Variable Interest Entities. A VIE is an entity that lacks one 
or more of the characteristics of a voting interest entity. The 
firm has a controlling financial interest in a VIE when the 
firm has a variable interest or interests that provide it with (i) 
the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most 
significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and (ii) 
the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to 
receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be 
significant to the VIE. See Note 17 for further information 
about VIEs. 
Equity-Method Investments. When the firm does not have 
a controlling financial interest in an entity but can exert 
significant influence over the entity’s operating and financial 
policies, the investment is generally accounted for at fair 
value by electing the fair value option available under U.S. 
GAAP. Significant influence generally exists when the firm 
owns 20% to 50% of the entity’s common stock or in-
substance common stock. 
In certain cases, the firm applies the equity method of 
accounting to new investments that are strategic in nature or 
closely related to the firm’s principal business activities, 
when the firm has a significant degree of involvement in the 
cash flows or operations of the investee or when cost-benefit 
considerations are less significant. See Note 8 for further 
information about equity-method investments.
 
Investment Funds. The firm has formed investment funds 
with third-party investors. These funds are typically 
organized as limited partnerships or limited liability 
companies for which the firm acts as general partner or 
manager. Generally, the firm does not hold a majority of the 
economic interests in these funds. These funds are usually 
voting interest entities and generally are not consolidated 
because third-party investors typically have rights to 
terminate the funds or to remove the firm as general partner 
or manager. Investments in these funds are generally 
measured at net asset value (NAV) and are included in 
investments. See Notes 8, 18 and 22 for further information 
about investments in funds. 
Use of Estimates 
Preparation of these consolidated financial statements 
requires management to make certain estimates and 
assumptions, the most important of which relate to fair value 
measurements, the allowance for credit losses on loans and 
lending commitments accounted for at amortized cost, 
accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, 
provisions for losses that may arise from litigation and 
regulatory 
proceedings 
(including 
governmental 
investigations), and accounting for income taxes. These 
estimates and assumptions are based on the best available 
information, but actual results could be materially different. 
Revenue Recognition 
Financial Assets and Liabilities at Fair Value. Trading 
assets and liabilities and certain investments are carried at 
fair value either under the fair value option or in accordance 
with other U.S. GAAP. In addition, the firm has elected to 
account for certain of its loans and other financial assets and 
liabilities at fair value by electing the fair value option. The 
fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. Financial assets are marked to bid prices 
and financial liabilities are marked to offer prices. Fair value 
measurements do not include transaction costs. Fair value 
gains or losses are generally included in market making or 
other principal transactions. See Note 4 for further 
information about fair value measurements. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
137
Revenue from Contracts with Clients. The firm 
recognizes revenue earned from contracts with clients for 
services, 
such 
as 
investment 
banking, 
investment 
management, and execution and clearing (contracts with 
clients), when the performance obligations related to the 
underlying transaction are completed. 
Revenues 
from 
contracts 
with 
clients 
represent 
approximately 45% of total non-interest revenues for both 
2024 and 2023 (including approximately 85% of investment 
banking revenues, approximately 95% of investment 
management revenues and all commissions and fees), and 
approximately 50% of total non-interest revenues for 2022 
(including approximately 85% of investment banking 
revenues, approximately 95% of investment management 
revenues and all commissions and fees). See Note 25 for 
information about net revenues by business segment. 
Investment Banking 
Advisory. Fees from financial advisory assignments are 
recognized in revenues when the services related to the 
underlying transaction are completed under the terms of the 
assignment. 
Non-refundable 
deposits 
and 
milestone 
payments in connection with financial advisory assignments 
are recognized in revenues upon completion of the 
underlying transaction or when the assignment is otherwise 
concluded. 
Expenses associated with financial advisory assignments are 
recognized when incurred and are included in transaction 
based expenses. Client reimbursements for such expenses are 
included in investment banking revenues. 
Underwriting. Fees from underwriting assignments are 
recognized in revenues upon completion of the underlying 
transaction based on the terms of the assignment. 
Expenses associated with underwriting assignments are 
generally deferred until the related revenue is recognized or 
the assignment is otherwise concluded. Such expenses are 
included in transaction based expenses for completed 
assignments. 
Investment Management 
The firm earns management fees and incentive fees for 
investment management services, which are included in 
investment management revenues. The firm makes payments 
to brokers and advisors related to the placement of the firm’s 
investment funds (distribution fees), which are included in 
transaction based expenses. 
Management Fees. Management fees for mutual funds are 
calculated as a percentage of daily NAV and are received 
monthly. Management fees for hedge funds are calculated as 
a percentage of month-end NAV and are generally received 
quarterly. Management fees for separately managed accounts 
are calculated as a percentage of either the daily or monthly 
NAV and are received quarterly. Management fees for 
private equity funds are calculated as a percentage of 
monthly invested capital or committed capital and are 
generally received quarterly, semi-annually or annually, 
depending on the fund. Management fees are recognized over 
time in the period the services are provided. 
Distribution fees paid by the firm are calculated based on 
either a percentage of the management fee, the investment 
fund’s NAV or the committed capital. Such fees are included 
in transaction based expenses. 
Incentive Fees. Incentive fees are calculated as a percentage 
of a fund’s or separately managed account’s return, or excess 
return above a specified benchmark or other performance 
target. Incentive fees are generally based on investment 
performance over a twelve-month period or over the life of a 
fund. Fees that are based on performance over a twelve-
month period are subject to adjustment prior to the end of 
the measurement period. For fees that are based on 
investment performance over the life of the fund, future 
investment underperformance may require fees previously 
distributed to the firm to be returned to the fund. 
Incentive fees earned from a fund or separately managed 
account are recognized when it is probable that a significant 
reversal of such fees will not occur, which is generally when 
such fees are no longer subject to fluctuations in the market 
value of investments held by the fund or separately managed 
account. Therefore, incentive fees recognized during the 
period may relate to performance obligations satisfied in 
previous periods. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
138
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Commissions and Fees 
The firm earns substantially all commissions and fees from 
executing and clearing client transactions on stock, options 
and futures markets, as well as over-the-counter (OTC) 
transactions. Commissions and fees are recognized on the 
day the trade is executed. The firm also provides third-party 
research services to clients in connection with certain soft-
dollar arrangements. Third-party research costs incurred by 
the firm in connection with such arrangements are presented 
net within commissions and fees. 
Remaining Performance Obligations 
Remaining performance obligations are services that the firm 
has committed to perform in the future in connection with its 
contracts with clients. The firm’s remaining performance 
obligations are generally related to its financial advisory 
assignments and certain investment management activities. 
Revenues associated with remaining performance obligations 
relating to financial advisory assignments cannot be 
determined until the outcome of the transaction. For the 
firm’s investment management activities, where fees are 
calculated based on the NAV of the fund or separately 
managed account, future revenues associated with such 
remaining performance obligations cannot be determined as 
such fees are subject to fluctuations in the market value of 
investments held by the fund or separately managed account. 
The firm is able to determine the future revenues associated 
with management fees calculated based on committed 
capital. As of December 2024, substantially all future net 
revenues associated with such remaining performance 
obligations will be recognized through 2033. Annual 
revenues associated with such performance obligations 
average less than $300 million through 2033. 
Transfers of Financial Assets 
Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when 
the firm has relinquished control over the assets transferred. 
For transfers of financial assets accounted for as sales, any 
gains or losses are recognized in net revenues. Assets or 
liabilities that arise from the firm’s continuing involvement 
with transferred financial assets are initially recognized at 
fair value. For transfers of financial assets that are not 
accounted for as sales, the assets are generally included in 
trading assets and the transfer is accounted for as a 
collateralized financing, with the related interest expense 
recognized over the life of the transaction. See Note 11 for 
further information about transfers of financial assets 
accounted for as collateralized financings and Note 16 for 
further information about transfers of financial assets 
accounted for as sales. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
The firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight 
deposits held in the ordinary course of business. Cash and 
cash equivalents included cash and due from banks of $5.36 
billion as of December 2024 and $7.93 billion as of December 
2023. Cash and cash equivalents also included interest-
bearing deposits with banks of $176.73 billion as of 
December 2024 and $233.65 billion as of December 2023. 
The firm segregates cash for regulatory and other purposes 
related to client activity. Cash and cash equivalents 
segregated for regulatory and other purposes were $14.84 
billion as of December 2024 and $17.08 billion as of 
December 2023. In addition, the firm segregates securities for 
regulatory and other purposes related to client activity. See 
Note 11 for further information about segregated securities. 
Customer and Other Receivables 
Customer and other receivables included receivables from 
customers and counterparties of $92.88 billion as of 
December 2024 and $90.16 billion as of December 2023, and 
receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations 
of $40.84 billion as of December 2024 and $42.33 billion as of 
December 2023. Such receivables primarily consist of 
customer margin loans, collateral posted in connection with 
certain derivative transactions, and receivables resulting from 
unsettled transactions.
Substantially all of these receivables are accounted for at 
amortized cost net of any allowance for credit losses, which 
generally approximates fair value. As these receivables are 
not accounted for at fair value, they are not included in the 
firm’s fair value hierarchy in Notes 4 and 5. Had these 
receivables been included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy, 
substantially all would have been classified in level 2 as of 
both December 2024 and December 2023. See Note 10 for 
further information about customer and other receivables 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option. 
Interest on customer and other receivables is recognized over 
the life of the transaction and included in interest income. 
Customer and other receivables includes receivables from 
contracts with clients and contract assets. Contract assets 
represent the firm’s right to receive consideration for services 
provided in connection with its contracts with clients for 
which collection is conditional and not merely subject to the 
passage of time. The firm’s receivables from contracts with 
clients were $4.08 billion as of December 2024 and $3.59 
billion as of December 2023. As of both December 2024 and 
December 2023, contract assets were not material. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
139
Customer and Other Payables 
Customer and other payables included payables to customers 
and counterparties of $217.15 billion as of December 2024 
and $220.71 billion as of December 2023, and payables to 
brokers, dealers and clearing organizations of $6.11 billion as 
of December 2024 and $10.02 billion as of December 2023. 
Such payables primarily consist of customer credit balances 
related to the firm’s prime brokerage activities. Customer 
and other payables are accounted for at cost plus accrued 
interest, which generally approximates fair value. As these 
payables are not accounted for at fair value, they are not 
included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy in Notes 4 and 5. 
Had these payables been included in the firm’s fair value 
hierarchy, substantially all would have been classified in level 
2 as of both December 2024 and December 2023. Interest on 
customer and other payables is recognized over the life of the 
transaction and included in interest expense. 
Offsetting Assets and Liabilities 
To reduce credit exposures on derivatives and securities 
financing transactions, the firm may enter into master netting 
agreements or similar arrangements (collectively, netting 
agreements) with counterparties that permit it to offset 
receivables and payables with such counterparties. A netting 
agreement is a contract with a counterparty that permits net 
settlement of multiple transactions with that counterparty, 
including upon the exercise of termination rights by a non-
defaulting party. Upon exercise of such termination rights, 
all transactions governed by the netting agreement are 
terminated and a net settlement amount is calculated. In 
addition, the firm receives and posts cash and securities 
collateral with respect to its derivatives and securities 
financing transactions, subject to the terms of the related 
credit 
support 
agreements 
or 
similar 
arrangements 
(collectively, credit support agreements). An enforceable 
credit support agreement grants the non-defaulting party 
exercising termination rights the right to liquidate the 
collateral and apply the proceeds to any amounts owed. In 
order to assess enforceability of the firm’s right of setoff 
under netting and credit support agreements, the firm 
evaluates various factors, including applicable bankruptcy 
laws, local statutes and regulatory provisions in the 
jurisdiction of the parties to the agreement.
Derivatives are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis (i.e., 
the net payable or receivable for derivative assets and 
liabilities for a given counterparty) in the consolidated 
balance sheets when a legal right of setoff exists under an 
enforceable netting agreement. Resale agreements and 
securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repurchase 
agreements) and securities borrowed and loaned transactions 
with the same settlement date are presented on a net-by-
counterparty basis in the consolidated balance sheets when 
such transactions meet certain settlement criteria and are 
subject to netting agreements. 
In the consolidated balance sheets, derivatives are reported 
net of cash collateral received and posted under enforceable 
credit support agreements, when transacted under an 
enforceable netting agreement. In the consolidated balance 
sheets, resale and repurchase agreements, and securities 
borrowed and loaned, are not reported net of the related cash 
and securities received or posted as collateral. See Note 11 for 
further information about collateral received and pledged, 
including rights to deliver or repledge collateral. See Notes 7 
and 11 for further information about offsetting assets and 
liabilities. 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. currencies are 
translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the 
consolidated balance sheets and revenues and expenses are 
translated at average rates of exchange for the period. 
Foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses on 
transactions in nonfunctional currencies are recognized in 
earnings. Gains or losses on translation of the financial 
statements of a non-U.S. operation, when the functional 
currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are included, net of 
hedges and taxes, in the consolidated statements of 
comprehensive income. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
140
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Recent Accounting Developments 
Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures 
(ASC 326). In March 2022, the FASB issued ASU No. 
2022-02, “Financial Instruments — Credit Losses (Topic 326) 
— Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures.” 
This ASU eliminates the recognition and measurement 
guidance for troubled debt restructurings and requires 
enhanced disclosures about loan modifications for borrowers 
experiencing financial difficulty. This ASU also requires 
enhanced disclosure for loans that have been charged off. 
This ASU became effective for the firm in January 2023 
under a prospective approach. Adoption of this ASU did not 
have a material impact on the firm’s consolidated financial 
statements.
Fair Value Measurement of Equity Securities Subject 
to Contractual Sale Restrictions (ASC 820). In June 
2022, the FASB issued ASU No. 2022-03, “Fair Value 
Measurement of Equity Securities Subject to Contractual Sale 
Restrictions.” This ASU clarifies that a contractual 
restriction on the sale of an equity security should not be 
considered in measuring its fair value. In addition, the ASU 
requires specific disclosures related to equity securities that 
are subject to contractual sale restrictions. This ASU became 
effective for the firm in January 2024 under a prospective 
approach. Adoption of this ASU did not have a material 
impact on the firm’s consolidated financial statements. 
Accounting for Investments in Tax Credit Structures 
Using the Proportional Amortization Method (ASC 
323). In March 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-02, 
“Investments — Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 
323) — Accounting for Investments in Tax Credit Structures 
Using the Proportional Amortization Method.” This ASU 
expands the proportional amortization method election 
currently associated with low-income housing tax credits to 
other qualifying tax credits and requires incremental 
disclosures for programs in which the proportional 
amortization method is elected. This ASU became effective 
for the firm in January 2024 under a modified retrospective 
approach. Adoption of this ASU did not have a material 
impact on the firm’s consolidated financial statements.
Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures 
(ASC 280). In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 
2023-07, 
“Improvements 
to 
Reportable 
Segment 
Disclosures.” This ASU requires enhanced disclosures 
primarily about significant segment expenses that are 
regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker. 
This ASU became effective for the firm for annual periods 
beginning in January 2024, and is effective for interim 
periods beginning in January 2025 under a retrospective 
approach. 
Since 
this 
ASU 
only 
requires 
additional 
disclosures, adoption of this ASU did not have an impact on 
the firm’s financial condition, results of operations or cash 
flows. See Note 25 for further information.
Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (ASC 740). 
In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09, 
“Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures.” This ASU 
requires incremental disclosures primarily related to the 
reconciliation of the statutory income tax rate to the effective 
income tax rate, as well as income taxes paid. This ASU is 
effective for the firm for annual periods beginning in January 
2025 under a prospective approach with the option to apply 
it retrospectively. Since this ASU only requires additional 
disclosures, adoption of this ASU will not have an impact on 
the firm’s financial condition, results of operations or cash 
flows.
Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses (ASC 
220). In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU No. 2024-03, 
“Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses.” This ASU 
requires additional disaggregation of certain expenses within 
the footnotes to the financial statements. This ASU is 
effective for the firm for annual periods beginning in January 
2027, and interim periods beginning in January 2028 under a 
prospective approach. Early adoption and retrospective 
application is permitted. Since this ASU only requires 
additional disclosures, adoption of this ASU will not have an 
impact on the firm’s financial condition, results of operations 
or cash flows.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
141
Note 4. 
Fair Value Measurements 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that 
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability 
in 
an 
orderly 
transaction 
between 
market 
participants at the measurement date. Financial assets are 
marked to bid prices and financial liabilities are marked to 
offer prices. Fair value measurements do not include 
transaction costs. The firm measures certain financial assets 
and liabilities as a portfolio (i.e., based on its net exposure to 
market and/or credit risks). 
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an active 
market. If quoted prices in active markets are not available, 
fair value is determined by reference to prices for similar 
instruments, quoted prices or recent transactions in less 
active markets, or internally developed models that primarily 
use market-based or independently sourced inputs, including, 
but not limited to, interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt 
prices, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, credit 
spreads and funding spreads (i.e., the spread or difference 
between the interest rate at which a borrower could finance a 
given financial instrument relative to a benchmark interest 
rate). 
U.S. GAAP has a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of fair 
value measurements. This hierarchy prioritizes inputs to the 
valuation techniques used to measure fair value, giving the 
highest priority to level 1 inputs and the lowest priority to 
level 3 inputs. A financial instrument’s level in this hierarchy 
is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to its 
fair value measurement. In evaluating the significance of a 
valuation input, the firm considers, among other factors, a 
portfolio’s net risk exposure to that input. The fair value 
hierarchy is as follows: 
Level 1. Inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active 
markets to which the firm had access at the measurement 
date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities. 
Level 2. Inputs to valuation techniques are observable, either 
directly or indirectly. 
Level 3. One or more inputs to valuation techniques are 
significant and unobservable. 
The fair values for substantially all of the firm’s financial 
assets and liabilities are based on observable prices and 
inputs and are classified in levels 1 and 2 of the fair value 
hierarchy. Certain level 2 and level 3 financial assets and 
liabilities may require valuation adjustments that a market 
participant would require to arrive at fair value for factors, 
such as counterparty and the firm’s credit quality, funding 
risk, transfer restrictions, liquidity and bid/offer spreads. 
Valuation adjustments are generally based on market 
evidence. 
The table below presents financial assets and liabilities 
carried at fair value. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Total level 1 financial assets
$ 436,298 $ 
332,549 
Total level 2 financial assets
 
497,514  
519,130 
Total level 3 financial assets
 
20,358  
25,100 
Investments in funds at NAV
 
2,547  
3,000 
Counterparty and cash collateral netting
 
(49,048)  
(51,134) 
Total financial assets at fair value
$ 907,669 $ 
828,645 
Total assets
$ 1,675,972 $ 1,641,594 
Total level 3 financial assets divided by:
Total assets
 1.2% 
 1.5% 
Total financial assets at fair value
 2.2% 
 3.0% 
Total level 1 financial liabilities
$ 100,350 $ 
125,715 
Total level 2 financial liabilities
 
611,340  
523,709 
Total level 3 financial liabilities
 
25,721  
28,704 
Counterparty and cash collateral netting
 
(37,750)  
(44,135) 
Total financial liabilities at fair value
$ 699,661 $ 
633,993 
Total liabilities
$ 1,553,976 $ 1,524,689 
Total level 3 financial liabilities divided by:
Total liabilities
 1.7% 
1.9%
Total financial liabilities at fair value
 3.7% 
4.5%
In the table above: 
• Counterparty netting among positions classified in the 
same level is included in that level.
• Counterparty and cash collateral netting represents the 
impact on derivatives of netting across levels.
The table below presents a summary of level 3 financial 
assets. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Trading assets:
Trading cash instruments
$ 
1,213 $ 
1,791 
Derivatives
 
4,126  
5,161 
Investments
 
14,142  
17,138 
Loans
 
683  
823 
Other assets
 
194  
187 
Total
$ 
20,358 $ 25,100 
Level 3 financial assets as of December 2024 decreased 
compared with December 2023, primarily reflecting a 
decrease in level 3 investments. See Note 5 for further 
information about level 3 financial assets (including 
information about unrealized gains and losses related to level 
3 financial assets and transfers into and out of level 3). 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
142
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The valuation techniques and nature of significant inputs 
used to determine the fair value of the firm’s financial 
instruments are described below. See Note 5 for further 
information about significant unobservable inputs used to 
value level 3 financial instruments. 
Valuation Techniques and Significant Inputs for 
Trading Cash Instruments, Investments and Loans 
Level 1. Level 1 instruments include U.S. government 
obligations, most non-U.S. government obligations, certain 
agency obligations, certain corporate debt instruments, 
certain money market instruments and actively traded listed 
equities. These instruments are valued using quoted prices for 
identical unrestricted instruments in active markets. The firm 
defines active markets for equity instruments based on the 
average daily trading volume both in absolute terms and 
relative to the market capitalization for the instrument. The 
firm defines active markets for debt instruments based on 
both the average daily trading volume and the number of 
days with trading activity. 
Level 2. Level 2 instruments include certain non-U.S. 
government obligations, most agency obligations, most 
mortgage-backed loans and securities, most corporate debt 
instruments, most state and municipal obligations, most 
money market instruments, most other debt obligations, 
restricted or less liquid listed equities, certain private equities, 
commodities and certain lending commitments.
Valuations of level 2 instruments can be verified to quoted 
prices, recent trading activity for identical or similar 
instruments, broker or dealer quotations or alternative 
pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. 
Consideration is given to the nature of the quotations (e.g., 
indicative or executable) and the relationship of recent 
market activity to the prices provided from alternative 
pricing sources. 
Valuation adjustments are typically made to level 2 
instruments (i) if the instrument is subject to transfer 
restrictions and/or (ii) for other premiums and liquidity 
discounts that a market participant would require to arrive at 
fair value. Valuation adjustments are generally based on 
market evidence. 
Level 3. Level 3 instruments have one or more significant 
valuation inputs that are not observable. Absent evidence to 
the contrary, level 3 instruments are initially valued at 
transaction price, which is considered to be the best initial 
estimate of fair value. Subsequently, the firm uses other 
methodologies to determine fair value, which vary based on 
the type of instrument. Valuation inputs and assumptions are 
changed when corroborated by substantive observable 
evidence, including values realized on sales. 
Valuation techniques of level 3 instruments vary by 
instrument, but are generally based on discounted cash flow 
techniques. The valuation techniques and the nature of 
significant inputs used to determine the fair values of each 
type of level 3 instrument are described below: 
Loans and Securities Backed by Commercial Real 
Estate 
Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate are 
directly or indirectly collateralized by a single property or a 
portfolio of properties, and may include tranches of varying 
levels of subordination. Significant inputs are generally 
determined based on relative value analyses and include: 
• Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related 
assets and/or current levels and changes in market indices, 
such as the CMBX (an index that tracks the performance 
of commercial mortgage bonds); 
• Transaction prices in both the underlying collateral and 
instruments with the same or similar underlying collateral; 
• A measure of expected future cash flows in a default 
scenario (recovery rates) implied by the value of the 
underlying collateral, which is mainly driven by current 
performance of the underlying collateral and capitalization 
rates. Recovery rates are expressed as a percentage of 
notional or face value of the instrument and reflect the 
benefit of credit enhancements on certain instruments; and 
• Timing of expected future cash flows (duration) which, in 
certain cases, may incorporate the impact of any loan 
forbearances 
and 
other 
unobservable 
inputs 
(e.g., 
prepayment speeds). 
Loans and Securities Backed by Residential Real 
Estate 
Loans and securities backed by residential real estate are 
directly or indirectly collateralized by portfolios of residential 
real estate and may include tranches of varying levels of 
subordination. Significant inputs are generally determined 
based on relative value analyses, which incorporate 
comparisons to instruments with similar collateral and risk 
profiles. Significant inputs include: 
• Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related 
assets; 
• Transaction prices in both the underlying collateral and 
instruments with the same or similar underlying collateral; 
and
• Duration, driven by underlying loan prepayment speeds 
and residential property liquidation timelines.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
143
Corporate Debt Instruments 
Corporate debt instruments includes corporate loans, debt 
securities and convertible debentures. Significant inputs for 
corporate debt instruments are generally determined based 
on relative value analyses, which incorporate comparisons 
both to prices of credit default swaps that reference the same 
or similar underlying instrument or entity and to other debt 
instruments for the same or similar issuer for which 
observable prices or broker quotations are available. 
Significant inputs include: 
• Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related 
assets and/or current levels and trends of market indices, 
such as the CDX (an index that tracks the performance of 
corporate credit);
• Current performance and recovery assumptions and, where 
the firm uses credit default swaps to value the related 
instrument, the cost of borrowing the underlying reference 
obligation;
• Duration; and
• Market and transaction multiples for corporate debt 
instruments with convertibility or participation options.
Equity Securities 
Equity securities consists of private equities. Recent third-
party completed or pending transactions (e.g., merger 
proposals, debt restructurings, tender offers) are considered 
the best evidence for any change in fair value. When these are 
not available, the following valuation methodologies are 
used, as appropriate: 
• Industry multiples (primarily EBITDA and revenue 
multiples) and public comparables;
• Transactions in similar instruments;
• Discounted cash flow techniques; and
• Third-party appraisals.
The firm also considers changes in the outlook for the 
relevant industry and financial performance of the issuer as 
compared to projected performance. Significant inputs 
include: 
• Market and transaction multiples;
• Discount rates and capitalization rates; and
• For equity securities with debt-like features, market yields 
implied by transactions of similar or related assets, current 
performance and recovery assumptions, and duration.
Other Trading Cash Instruments, Investments and 
Loans 
The significant inputs to the valuation of other trading cash 
instruments, investments and loans are generally determined 
based on relative value analyses, which incorporate 
comparisons both to prices of credit default swaps that 
reference the same or similar underlying instrument or entity 
and to other debt instruments for the same issuer for which 
observable prices or broker quotations are available. 
Significant inputs include: 
• Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related 
assets and/or current levels and trends of market indices; 
• Current performance and recovery assumptions and, where 
the firm uses credit default swaps to value the related 
instrument, the cost of borrowing the underlying reference 
obligation; and 
• Duration. 
Valuation Techniques and Significant Inputs for 
Derivatives 
The firm’s level 2 and level 3 derivatives are valued using 
derivative pricing models (e.g., discounted cash flow models, 
correlation models and models that incorporate option 
pricing methodologies, such as Monte Carlo simulations). 
Price 
transparency 
of 
derivatives 
can 
generally 
be 
characterized by product type, as described below. 
• Interest Rate. In general, the key inputs used to value 
interest rate derivatives are transparent, even for most 
long-dated contracts. Interest rate swaps and options 
denominated in the currencies of leading industrialized 
nations are characterized by high trading volumes and tight 
bid/offer spreads. Interest rate derivatives that reference 
indices, such as an inflation index, or the shape of the yield 
curve (e.g., 10-year swap rate vs. 2-year swap rate) are 
more complex, but the key inputs are generally observable. 
• Credit. Price transparency for credit default swaps, 
including both single names and baskets of credits, varies 
by market and underlying reference entity or obligation. 
Credit default swaps that reference indices, large 
corporates and major sovereigns generally exhibit the most 
price transparency. For credit default swaps with other 
underliers, price transparency varies based on credit rating, 
the cost of borrowing the underlying reference obligations, 
and the availability of the underlying reference obligations 
for delivery upon the default of the issuer. Credit default 
swaps that reference loans, asset-backed securities and 
emerging market debt instruments tend to have less price 
transparency than those that reference corporate bonds. In 
addition, more complex credit derivatives, such as those 
sensitive to the correlation between two or more 
underlying reference obligations, generally have less price 
transparency.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
144
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Currency. Prices for currency derivatives based on the 
exchange rates of leading industrialized nations, including 
those with longer tenors, are generally transparent. The 
primary difference between the price transparency of 
developed and emerging market currency derivatives is that 
emerging markets tend to be only observable for contracts 
with shorter tenors.
• Commodity. Commodity derivatives include transactions 
referenced to energy (e.g., oil, natural gas and electricity), 
metals (e.g., precious and base) and soft commodities (e.g., 
agricultural). Price transparency varies based on the 
underlying commodity, delivery location, tenor and 
product quality (e.g., diesel fuel compared to unleaded 
gasoline). In general, price transparency for commodity 
derivatives is greater for contracts with shorter tenors and 
contracts that are more closely aligned with major and/or 
benchmark commodity indices.
• Equity. Price transparency for equity derivatives varies by 
market and underlier. Options on indices and the common 
stock of corporates included in major equity indices exhibit 
the most price transparency. Equity derivatives generally 
have observable market prices, except for contracts with 
long tenors or reference prices that differ significantly from 
current market prices. More complex equity derivatives, 
such as those sensitive to the correlation between two or 
more 
individual 
stocks, 
generally 
have 
less 
price 
transparency.
Liquidity is essential to the observability of all product types. 
If transaction volumes decline, previously transparent prices 
and other inputs may become unobservable. Conversely, even 
highly structured products may at times have trading 
volumes large enough to provide observability of prices and 
other inputs.
Level 1. Level 1 derivatives include short-term contracts for 
future delivery of securities when the underlying security is a 
level 1 instrument, and exchange-traded derivatives if they 
are actively traded and are valued at their quoted market 
price.
Level 2. Level 2 derivatives include OTC derivatives for 
which all significant valuation inputs are corroborated by 
market evidence and exchange-traded derivatives that are not 
actively traded and/or that are valued using models that 
calibrate to market-clearing levels of OTC derivatives. 
The selection of a particular model to value a derivative 
depends on the contractual terms of and specific risks 
inherent in the instrument, as well as the availability of 
pricing information in the market. For derivatives that trade 
in liquid markets, model selection does not involve significant 
management judgment because outputs of models can be 
calibrated to market-clearing levels. 
Valuation models require a variety of inputs, such as 
contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, discount rates 
(including those derived from interest rates on collateral 
received and posted as specified in credit support agreements 
for collateralized derivatives), credit curves, measures of 
volatility, prepayment rates, loss severity rates and 
correlations of such inputs. Significant inputs to the 
valuations of level 2 derivatives can be verified to market 
transactions, broker or dealer quotations or other alternative 
pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. 
Consideration is given to the nature of the quotations (e.g., 
indicative or executable) and the relationship of recent 
market activity to the prices provided from alternative 
pricing sources. 
Level 3. Level 3 derivatives are valued using models which 
utilize observable level 1 and/or level 2 inputs, as well as 
unobservable level 3 inputs. The significant unobservable 
inputs used to value the firm’s level 3 derivatives are 
described below. 
• For level 3 interest rate and currency derivatives, significant 
unobservable inputs include correlations of certain 
currencies and interest rates (e.g., the correlation between 
Euro inflation and Euro interest rates) and specific interest 
rate and currency volatilities. 
• For level 3 credit derivatives, significant unobservable 
inputs include illiquid credit spreads and upfront credit 
points, which are unique to specific reference obligations 
and reference entities, and recovery rates. 
• For level 3 commodity derivatives, significant unobservable 
inputs include volatilities for options with strike prices that 
differ significantly from current market prices and prices or 
spreads for certain products for which the product quality 
or physical location of the commodity is not aligned with 
benchmark indices. 
• For level 3 equity derivatives, significant unobservable 
inputs generally include equity volatility inputs for options 
that are long-dated and/or have strike prices that differ 
significantly from current market prices. In addition, the 
valuation of certain structured trades requires the use of 
level 3 correlation inputs, such as the correlation of the 
price performance of two or more individual stocks or the 
correlation of the price performance for a basket of stocks 
to another asset class, such as commodities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
145
Subsequent to the initial valuation of a level 3 derivative, the 
firm updates the level 1 and level 2 inputs to reflect 
observable market changes and any resulting gains and losses 
are classified in level 3. Level 3 inputs are changed when 
corroborated 
by 
evidence, 
such 
as 
similar 
market 
transactions, third-party pricing services and/or broker or 
dealer quotations or other empirical market data. In 
circumstances where the firm cannot verify the model value 
by reference to market transactions, it is possible that a 
different valuation model could produce a materially 
different estimate of fair value. See Note 5 for further 
information about significant unobservable inputs used in the 
valuation of level 3 derivatives. 
Valuation 
Adjustments. 
Valuation 
adjustments 
are 
integral to determining the fair value of derivative portfolios 
and are used to adjust the mid-market valuations produced 
by derivative pricing models to the exit price valuation. These 
adjustments incorporate bid/offer spreads, the cost of 
liquidity, and credit and funding valuation adjustments, 
which account for the credit and funding risk inherent in the 
uncollateralized portion of derivative portfolios. The firm 
also makes funding valuation adjustments to collateralized 
derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not permit 
the firm to deliver or repledge collateral received. Market-
based inputs are generally used when calibrating valuation 
adjustments to market-clearing levels. 
In addition, for derivatives that include significant 
unobservable inputs, the firm makes model or exit price 
adjustments to account for the valuation uncertainty present 
in the transaction.
Valuation Techniques and Significant Inputs for Other 
Financial Assets and Liabilities at Fair Value 
In addition to trading cash instruments, derivatives, and 
certain investments and loans, the firm accounts for certain 
of its other financial assets and liabilities at fair value under 
the fair value option. Such instruments include repurchase 
agreements and substantially all resale agreements; certain 
securities borrowed and loaned transactions; certain 
customer and other receivables, including certain margin 
loans; certain time deposits, including structured certificates 
of deposit, which are hybrid financial instruments; 
substantially 
all 
other 
secured 
financings, 
including 
structured financing arrangements and transfers of assets 
accounted for as financings; certain unsecured short- and 
long-term borrowings, substantially all of which are hybrid 
financial instruments; and certain other assets and liabilities. 
These instruments are generally valued based on discounted 
cash flow techniques, which incorporate inputs with 
reasonable levels of price transparency, and are generally 
classified in level 2 because the inputs are observable. 
Valuation adjustments may be made for liquidity and for 
counterparty and the firm’s credit quality. The significant 
inputs used to value the firm’s other financial assets and 
liabilities are described below. 
Resale and Repurchase Agreements and Securities 
Borrowed and Loaned. The significant inputs to the 
valuation of resale and repurchase agreements and securities 
borrowed and loaned are funding spreads, the amount and 
timing of expected future cash flows and interest rates. 
Customer and Other Receivables. The significant inputs 
to the valuation of receivables are interest rates, the amount 
and timing of expected future cash flows and funding 
spreads. 
Deposits. The significant inputs to the valuation of time 
deposits are interest rates and the amount and timing of 
future cash flows. The inputs used to value the embedded 
derivative component of hybrid financial instruments are 
consistent with the inputs used to value the firm’s other 
derivative instruments described above. See Note 7 for 
further information about derivatives and Note 13 for further 
information about deposits. 
Other Secured Financings. The significant inputs to the 
valuation of other secured financings are the amount and 
timing of expected future cash flows, interest rates, funding 
spreads and the fair value of the collateral delivered by the 
firm (determined using the amount and timing of expected 
future cash flows, market prices, market yields and recovery 
assumptions). See Note 11 for further information about 
other secured financings. 
Unsecured Short- and Long-Term Borrowings. The 
significant inputs to the valuation of unsecured short- and 
long-term borrowings are the amount and timing of expected 
future cash flows, interest rates, the credit spreads of the firm 
and commodity prices for prepaid commodity transactions. 
The inputs used to value the embedded derivative component 
of hybrid financial instruments are consistent with the inputs 
used to value the firm’s other derivative instruments 
described above. See Note 7 for further information about 
derivatives and Note 14 for further information about 
borrowings. 
Other Assets and Liabilities. The significant inputs to the 
valuation of other assets and liabilities are the amount and 
timing of expected future cash flows, interest rates, market 
yields, volatility and correlation inputs. The inputs used to 
value the embedded derivative component of hybrid financial 
instruments are consistent with the inputs used to value the 
firm’s other derivative instruments described above. See Note 
7 for further information about derivatives. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
146
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 5. 
Fair Value Hierarchy
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value includes trading 
cash instruments, derivatives, and certain investments, loans 
and other financial assets and liabilities at fair value. 
Trading Cash Instruments
Fair Value by Level. The table below presents trading cash 
instruments by level within the fair value hierarchy. 
$ in millions
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
As of December 2024
 
 
 
 
Assets
 
 
 
 
Government and agency obligations: 
 
 
 
U.S.
$ 169,121 $ 66,958 $ 
– $ 236,079 
Non-U.S.
 
44,427  
25,071  
41  
69,539 
Loans and securities backed by:
 
 
 
Commercial real estate
 
–  
1,450  
38  
1,488 
Residential real estate
 
–  
11,364  
57  
11,421 
Corporate debt instruments
 
172  
46,739  
728  
47,639 
State and municipal obligations
 
–  
529  
–  
529 
Other debt obligations
 
1  
2,236  
95  
2,332 
Equity securities
 141,821  
1,143  
242  143,206 
Commodities
 
–  
10,971  
12  
10,983 
Total
$ 355,542 $ 166,461 $ 1,213 $ 523,216 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Government and agency obligations: 
 
 
 
U.S.
$ (21,181) $ 
(52) $ 
– $ (21,233) 
Non-U.S.
 (37,466)  
(3,283)  
(3)  
(40,752) 
Loans and securities backed by:
 
 
 
Commercial real estate
 
–  
(32)  
(1)  
(33) 
Residential real estate
 
–  
(20)  
–  
(20) 
Corporate debt instruments
 
(75)  (23,755)  
(52)  
(23,882) 
Other debt obligations
 
–  
(72)  
–  
(72) 
Equity securities
 (41,528)  
(12)  
(19)  
(41,559) 
Commodities
 
–  
(24)  
–  
(24) 
Total
$ (100,250) $ (27,250) $ 
(75) $ (127,575) 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
 
Assets
 
 
 
 
Government and agency obligations: 
 
 
 
U.S.
$ 85,190 $ 58,862 $ 
– $ 144,052 
Non-U.S.
 
61,981  
25,702  
91  
87,774 
Loans and securities backed by:
 
 
 
Commercial real estate
 
–  
916  
45  
961 
Residential real estate
 
–  
8,940  
99  
9,039 
Corporate debt instruments
 
177  
37,883  1,415  
39,475 
State and municipal obligations
 
–  
371  
–  
371 
Other debt obligations
 
80  
2,086  
37  
2,203 
Equity securities
 135,032  
1,739  
103  136,874 
Commodities
 
–  
5,640  
1  
5,641 
Total
$ 282,460 $ 142,139 $ 1,791 $ 426,390 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Government and agency obligations: 
 
 
 
U.S.
$ (26,400) $ 
(32) $ 
– $ (26,432) 
Non-U.S.
 
(50,825)  
(2,343)  
–  
(53,168) 
Loans and securities backed by:
 
 
 
Commercial real estate
 
–  
(27)  
–  
(27) 
Residential real estate
 
–  
(5)  
–  
(5) 
Corporate debt instruments
 
(124)  (15,317)  
(70)  
(15,511) 
Equity securities
 
(48,347)  
(37)  
(8)  
(48,392) 
Commodities
 
–  
(66)  
–  
(66) 
Total
$ (125,696) $ (17,827) $ 
(78) $ (143,601) 
Trading cash instruments consists of instruments held in 
connection 
with 
the 
firm’s 
market-making 
or 
risk 
management activities. These instruments are carried at fair 
value and the related fair value gains and losses are 
recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings.
In the table above: 
• Assets are shown as positive amounts and liabilities are 
shown as negative amounts. 
• Corporate debt instruments includes corporate loans, debt 
securities, convertible debentures, prepaid commodity 
transactions and transfers of assets accounted for as 
secured loans rather than purchases. 
• Other debt obligations includes other asset-backed 
securities and money market instruments. 
• Equity securities includes public equities and exchange-
traded funds. 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of trading cash 
instruments. 
Significant Unobservable Inputs. The table below 
presents the amount of level 3 trading cash instrument assets, 
and ranges and weighted averages of significant unobservable 
inputs used to value such trading cash instrument assets.
 
As of December 2024
As of December 2023
$ in millions
Amount or
Range
Weighted
Average
Amount or
Range
Weighted 
Average
Loans and securities backed by real estate
Level 3 assets
$ 
95 
$ 
144 
Yield
7.2% to 24.3%
 11.5% 
3.8% to 26.1%
 12.8% 
Recovery rate
23.3% to 69.2%
 50.9% 
35.5% to 76.0%
 44.6% 
Duration (years)
1.9 to 12.1
3.7
0.3 to 15.3
5.2
Corporate debt instruments
 
 
 
Level 3 assets
$ 
728 
 
$ 
1,415 
 
Yield
3.0% to 35.9%
 13.0% 
2.8% to 40.0%
 9.3% 
Recovery rate
6.8% to 69.0%
 53.6% 
7.3% to 65.0%
 39.4% 
Duration (years)
1.6 to 3.3
2.3
0.9 to 11.3
3.4
Other
Level 3 assets
$ 
390 
$ 
232 
Yield
4.7% to 37.9%
 15.2% 
3.6% to 31.3%
 14.6% 
Multiples
N/A
N/A
 0.7x to 4.5x
3.9x
Duration (years)
1.5 to 3.5
2.4
2.3 to 6.4
4.1
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
147
In the table above: 
• Other includes government and agency obligations, other 
debt obligations, equity securities and commodities.  
• Ranges represent the significant unobservable inputs that 
were used in the valuation of each type of trading cash 
instrument. 
• Weighted averages are calculated by weighting each input 
by the relative fair value of the trading cash instruments. 
• The ranges and weighted averages of these inputs are not 
representative of the appropriate inputs to use when 
calculating the fair value of any one trading cash 
instrument. For example, the highest recovery rate for 
corporate debt instruments is appropriate for valuing a 
specific corporate debt instrument, but may not be 
appropriate for valuing any other corporate debt 
instrument. Accordingly, the ranges of inputs do not 
represent uncertainty in, or possible ranges of, fair value 
measurements of level 3 trading cash instruments. 
• Increases in yield or duration used in the valuation of level 
3 trading cash instruments would have resulted in a lower 
fair value measurement, while increases in recovery rate or 
multiples would have resulted in a higher fair value 
measurement as of both December 2024 and December 
2023. Due to the distinctive nature of each level 3 trading 
cash instrument, the interrelationship of inputs is not 
necessarily uniform within each product type. 
• Trading cash instruments are valued using discounted cash 
flows. 
• The significant unobservable inputs for multiples related to 
other trading cash instruments as of December 2024 did not 
have a range (and there was no weighted average) as it 
related to a single position. Therefore, such unobservable 
inputs are not included in the table above.  
Level 3 Rollforward. The table below presents a summary 
of the changes in fair value for level 3 trading cash 
instruments. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Assets
Beginning balance
$ 
1,791 $ 
1,734 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
161  
154 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
7  
(32) 
Purchases
 
512  
825 
Sales
 
(618)  
(515) 
Settlements
 
(382)  
(286) 
Transfers into level 3
 
222  
167 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(480)  
(256) 
Ending balance
$ 
1,213 $ 
1,791 
Liabilities
Beginning balance
$ 
(78) $ 
(64) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
4  
3 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(25)  
(66) 
Purchases
 
57  
90 
Sales
 
(43)  
(77) 
Settlements
 
1  
1 
Transfers into level 3
 
(9)  
(3) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
18  
38 
Ending balance
$ 
(75) $ 
(78) 
In the table above: 
• Changes in fair value are presented for all trading cash 
instruments that are classified in level 3 as of the end of the 
period. 
• Net unrealized gains/(losses) relates to trading cash 
instruments that were still held at period-end.
• Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are 
reported at the beginning of the reporting period in which 
they occur. If a trading cash instrument was transferred to 
level 3 during a reporting period, its entire gain or loss for 
the period is classified in level 3. 
• For level 3 trading cash instrument assets, increases are 
shown as positive amounts, while decreases are shown as 
negative amounts. For level 3 trading cash instrument 
liabilities, increases are shown as negative amounts, while 
decreases are shown as positive amounts. 
• Level 
3 
trading 
cash 
instruments 
are 
frequently 
economically hedged with level 1 and level 2 trading cash 
instruments and/or level 1, level 2 or level 3 derivatives. 
Accordingly, gains or losses that are classified in level 3 can 
be partially offset by gains or losses attributable to level 1 
or level 2 trading cash instruments and/or level 1, level 2 or 
level 3 derivatives. As a result, gains or losses included in 
the level 3 rollforward below do not necessarily represent 
the overall impact on the firm’s results of operations, 
liquidity or capital resources. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
148
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents information, by product type, for 
assets included in the summary table above. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Loans and securities backed by real estate 
Beginning balance
$ 
144 $ 
154 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
18  
10 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(11)  
5 
Purchases
 
37  
28 
Sales
 
(33)  
(57) 
Settlements
 
(28)  
(16) 
Transfers into level 3
 
6  
31 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(38)  
(11) 
Ending balance
$ 
95 $ 
144 
Corporate debt instruments
Beginning balance
$ 
1,415 $ 
1,238 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
87  
56 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
2  
(26) 
Purchases
 
253  
656 
Sales
 
(389)  
(277) 
Settlements
 
(327)  
(201) 
Transfers into level 3
 
116  
98 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(429)  
(129) 
Ending balance
$ 
728 $ 
1,415 
Other
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
232 $ 
342 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
56  
88 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
16  
(11) 
Purchases
 
222  
141 
Sales
 
(196)  
(181) 
Settlements
 
(27)  
(69) 
Transfers into level 3
 
100  
38 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(13)  
(116) 
Ending balance
$ 
390 $ 
232 
In the table above, other includes government and agency 
obligations, other debt obligations, equity securities and 
commodities. 
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2024. The net realized and unrealized gains on 
level 3 trading cash instrument assets of $168 million 
(reflecting $161 million of net realized gains and $7 million of 
net unrealized gains) for 2024 included gains of $100 million 
reported in market making and $68 million reported in 
interest income.
The drivers of net unrealized gains on level 3 trading cash 
instrument assets for 2024 were not material.
Transfers into level 3 trading cash instrument assets during 
2024 primarily reflected transfers of certain corporate debt 
instruments and certain other debt obligations (included in 
other cash instruments) from level 2 (in each case, principally 
due to reduced price transparency as a result of a lack of 
market evidence, including fewer market transactions in these 
instruments).
Transfers out of level 3 trading cash instrument assets during 
2024 primarily reflected transfers of certain corporate debt 
instruments to level 2 (principally due to increased price 
transparency as a result of market evidence, including market 
transactions in these instruments). 
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2023. The net realized and unrealized gains on 
level 3 trading cash instrument assets of $122  million 
(reflecting $154 million of net realized gains and $32 million 
of net unrealized losses) for 2023 included gains of 
$60  million reported in market making and $62  million 
reported in interest income.
The drivers of net unrealized losses on level 3 trading cash 
instrument assets for 2023 were not material.
The drivers of transfers into level 3 trading cash instrument 
assets during 2023 were not material.
Transfers out of level 3 trading cash instrument assets during 
2023 primarily reflected transfers of certain corporate debt 
instruments and other debt obligations (included in other 
cash instruments) to level 2 (in each case, principally due to 
increased price transparency as a result of market evidence, 
including market transactions in these instruments).
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
149
Derivatives
Fair Value by Level. The table below presents derivatives 
on a gross basis by level and product type, as well as the 
impact of netting.
$ in millions
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
As of December 2024
Assets
Interest rates
$ 
102 $ 156,054 $ 
580 $ 156,736 
Credit
 
–  
9,249  
2,188  
11,437 
Currencies
 
–  114,500  
174  114,674 
Commodities
 
–  
12,134  
1,192  
13,326 
Equities
 
136  
79,301  
742  
80,179 
Gross fair value
 
238  371,238  
4,876  376,352 
Counterparty netting in levels
 
–  (279,215)  
(750)  (279,965) 
Subtotal
$ 
238 $ 92,023 $ 4,126 $ 96,387 
Cross-level counterparty netting
 
(947) 
Cash collateral netting
 
(48,101) 
Net fair value
$ 47,339 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Interest rates
$ 
(92) $ (124,235) $ 
(692) $ (125,019) 
Credit
 
–  
(9,060)  
(970)  
(10,030) 
Currencies
 
–  (114,488)  
(127)  (114,615) 
Commodities
 
–  
(14,111)  
(414)  
(14,525) 
Equities
 
(8)  (126,650)  
(1,848)  (128,506) 
Gross fair value
 
(100)  (388,544)  
(4,051)  (392,695) 
Counterparty netting in levels
 
–  279,215  
750  279,965 
Subtotal
$ (100) $ (109,329) $ (3,301) $ (112,730) 
Cross-level counterparty netting
 
947 
Cash collateral netting
 
36,803 
Net fair value
$ (74,980) 
As of December 2023
Assets
Interest rates
$ 
15 $ 241,850 $ 
758 $ 242,623 
Credit
 
–  
9,964  
2,861  
12,825 
Currencies
 
–  
89,694  
210  
89,904 
Commodities
 
–  
15,393  
1,449  
16,842 
Equities
 
2  
59,220  
816  
60,038 
Gross fair value
 
17  416,121  
6,094  422,232 
Counterparty netting in levels
 
–  (319,045)  
(933)  (319,978) 
Subtotal
$ 
17 $ 97,076 $ 5,161 $ 102,254 
Cross-level counterparty netting
 
(1,411) 
Cash collateral netting
 
(49,723) 
Net fair value
$ 51,120 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Interest rates
$ 
(14) $ (213,861) $ (1,197) $ (215,072) 
Credit
 
–  
(8,923)  
(1,211)  
(10,134) 
Currencies
 
–  
(97,436)  
(168)  
(97,604) 
Commodities
 
–  
(17,122)  
(821)  
(17,943) 
Equities
 
(5)  
(78,222)  
(1,887)  
(80,114) 
Gross fair value
 
(19)  (415,564)  
(5,284)  (420,867) 
Counterparty netting in levels
 
–  319,045  
933  319,978 
Subtotal
$ 
(19) $ (96,519) $ (4,351) $ (100,889) 
Cross-level counterparty netting
 
 
1,411 
Cash collateral netting
 
 
42,724 
Net fair value 
$ (56,754) 
In the table above: 
• Gross fair values exclude the effects of both counterparty 
netting and collateral netting, and therefore are not 
representative of the firm’s exposure. 
• Counterparty netting is reflected in each level to the extent 
that receivable and payable balances are netted within the 
same level and is included in counterparty netting in levels. 
Where the counterparty netting is across levels, the netting 
is included in cross-level counterparty netting.
• Assets are shown as positive amounts and liabilities are 
shown as negative amounts. 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of derivatives. 
Significant Unobservable Inputs. The table below 
presents the amount of level 3 derivative assets (liabilities), 
and ranges, averages and medians of significant unobservable 
inputs used to value such derivatives. 
As of December 2024
As of December 2023
$ in millions, except inputs
Amount or 
Range
Average/ 
Median
Amount or 
Range
Average/ 
Median
Interest rates, net
$ 
(112) 
 $ 
(439) 
Correlation
(10)% to 95%
60%/72%
(10)% to 75%
60%/66%
Volatility (bps)
31 to 101
63/59
31 to 101
56/49
Credit, net
$ 
1,218 
 $ 
1,650 
 
Credit spreads (bps)
8 to 1,328
134/91
3 to 1,750
130/85
Upfront credit points
(10) to 100
24/14
0 to 100
26/15
Recovery rates
20% to 70%
46%/50%
20% to 70%
43%/40%
Currencies, net
$ 
47 
$ 
42 
 
Correlation
20% to 68%
34%/23%
20% to 90%
41%/43%
Volatility
17% to 17%
17%/17%
15% to 16%
16%/16%
Commodities, net
$ 
778 
 $ 
628 
 
Volatility
21% to 120%
37%/33%
23% to 98%
42%/39%
Natural gas spread
$(2.82) to 
$3.76
$(0.14)/
$(0.16)
$(1.39) to 
$3.06
$(0.32)/ 
$(0.35)
Oil spread
$(6.42) to 
$22.10
$1.77/
$(3.80)
$(5.39) to 
$31.69
$15.39/ 
$19.35
Electricity price
$1.89 to 
$587.75
$52.18/
$32.68
$2.72 to 
$1,088.00
$48.15/ 
$35.16
Equities, net
$ 
(1,106) 
 $ 
(1,071) 
Correlation
(75)% to 100%
56%/52%
(70)% to 100%
65%/71%
Volatility
2% to 101%
15%/12%
1% to 106%
14%/13%
In the table above: 
• Assets are shown as positive amounts and liabilities are 
shown as negative amounts. 
• Ranges represent the significant unobservable inputs that 
were used in the valuation of each type of derivative. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
150
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Averages represent the arithmetic average of the inputs and 
are not weighted by the relative fair value or notional 
amount of the respective financial instruments. An average 
greater than the median indicates that the majority of 
inputs are below the average. For example, the difference 
between the average and the median for credit spreads 
indicates that the majority of the inputs fall in the lower 
end of the range. 
• The ranges, averages and medians of these inputs are not 
representative of the appropriate inputs to use when 
calculating the fair value of any one derivative. For 
example, the highest correlation for interest rate derivatives 
is appropriate for valuing a specific interest rate derivative 
but may not be appropriate for valuing any other interest 
rate derivative. Accordingly, the ranges of inputs do not 
represent uncertainty in, or possible ranges of, fair value 
measurements of level 3 derivatives.
• Interest rates, currencies and equities derivatives are valued 
using option pricing models, credit derivatives are valued 
using option pricing, correlation and discounted cash flow 
models, and commodities derivatives are valued using 
option pricing and discounted cash flow models.
• The fair value of any one instrument may be determined 
using multiple valuation techniques. For example, option 
pricing models and discounted cash flow models are 
typically used together to determine fair value. Therefore, 
the level 3 balance encompasses both of these techniques. 
• Correlation within currencies and equities includes cross-
product type correlation. 
• Natural gas spread represents the spread per million British 
thermal units of natural gas.
• Oil spread represents the spread per barrel of oil and 
refined products. 
• Electricity price represents the price per megawatt hour of 
electricity.
Range 
of 
Significant 
Unobservable 
Inputs. The 
following provides information about the ranges of 
significant unobservable inputs used to value the firm’s level 
3 derivative instruments: 
• Correlation. Ranges for correlation cover a variety of 
underliers both within one product type (e.g., equity index 
and equity single stock names) and across product types 
(e.g., correlation of an interest rate and a currency), as well 
as across regions. Generally, cross-product type correlation 
inputs are used to value more complex instruments and are 
lower than correlation inputs on assets within the same 
derivative product type.
• Volatility. Ranges for volatility cover numerous underliers 
across a variety of markets, maturities and strike prices. 
For example, volatility of equity indices is generally lower 
than volatility of single stocks.
• Credit spreads, upfront credit points and recovery 
rates. The ranges for credit spreads, upfront credit points 
and recovery rates cover a variety of underliers (index and 
single names), regions, sectors, maturities and credit 
qualities (high-yield and investment-grade). The broad 
range of this population gives rise to the width of the 
ranges of significant unobservable inputs. 
• Commodity prices and spreads. The ranges for 
commodity prices and spreads cover variability in 
products, maturities and delivery locations. 
Sensitivity of Fair Value Measurement to Changes in 
Significant Unobservable Inputs. The following is a 
description of the directional sensitivity of the firm’s level 3 
fair 
value 
measurements 
to 
changes 
in 
significant 
unobservable inputs, in isolation, as of each period-end:
• Correlation. In general, for contracts where the holder 
benefits from the convergence of the underlying asset or 
index prices (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, foreign 
exchange rates, inflation rates and equity prices), an 
increase in correlation results in a higher fair value 
measurement. 
• Volatility. In general, for purchased options, an increase in 
volatility results in a higher fair value measurement. 
• Credit spreads, upfront credit points and recovery 
rates. In general, the fair value of purchased credit 
protection increases as credit spreads or upfront credit 
points increase or recovery rates decrease. Credit spreads, 
upfront credit points and recovery rates are strongly related 
to distinctive risk factors of the underlying reference 
obligations, which include reference entity-specific factors, 
such as leverage, volatility and industry, market-based risk 
factors, such as borrowing costs or liquidity of the 
underlying reference obligation, and macroeconomic 
conditions. 
• Commodity prices and spreads. In general, for 
contracts where the holder is receiving a commodity, an 
increase in the spread (price difference from a benchmark 
index due to differences in quality or delivery location) or 
price results in a higher fair value measurement. 
Due to the distinctive nature of each of the firm’s level 3 
derivatives, the interrelationship of inputs is not necessarily 
uniform within each product type. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
151
Level 3 Rollforward. The table below presents a summary 
of the changes in fair value for level 3 derivatives. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Total level 3 derivatives, net
Beginning balance
$ 
810 $ 
1,521 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
(129)  
65 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
25  
(327) 
Purchases
 
480  
366 
Sales
 
(885)  
(1,420) 
Settlements
 
573  
466 
Transfers into level 3
 
(25)  
(90) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(24)  
229 
Ending balance
$ 
825 $ 
810 
In the table above: 
• Changes in fair value are presented for all derivative assets 
and liabilities that are classified in level 3 as of the end of 
the period.
• Net unrealized gains/(losses) relates to instruments that 
were still held at period-end.
• Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are 
reported at the beginning of the reporting period in which 
they occur. If a derivative was transferred into level 3 
during a reporting period, its entire gain or loss for the 
period is classified in level 3.
• Positive amounts for transfers into level 3 and negative 
amounts for transfers out of level 3 represent net transfers 
of derivative assets. Negative amounts for transfers into 
level 3 and positive amounts for transfers out of level 3 
represent net transfers of derivative liabilities.
• A derivative with level 1 and/or level 2 inputs is classified in 
level 3 in its entirety if it has at least one significant level 3 
input.
• If there is one significant level 3 input, the entire gain or 
loss from adjusting only observable inputs (i.e., level 1 and 
level 2 inputs) is classified in level 3.
• Gains or losses that have been classified in level 3 resulting 
from changes in level 1 or level 2 inputs are frequently 
offset by gains or losses attributable to level 1 or level 2 
derivatives and/or level 1, level 2 and level 3 trading cash 
instruments. As a result, gains/(losses) included in the level 
3 rollforward below do not necessarily represent the overall 
impact on the firm’s results of operations, liquidity or 
capital resources.
The table below presents information, by product type, for 
derivatives included in the summary table above. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Interest rates, net
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
(439) $ 
(459) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
21  
9 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
63  
(78) 
Purchases
 
4  
85 
Sales
 
(29)  
(408) 
Settlements
 
290  
423 
Transfers into level 3
 
(36)  
(81) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
14  
70 
Ending balance
$ 
(112) $ 
(439) 
Credit, net
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
1,650 $ 
1,460 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
94  
(58) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
9  
274 
Purchases
 
85  
89 
Sales
 
(74)  
(50) 
Settlements
 
(354)  
(138) 
Transfers into level 3
 
79  
(20) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(271)  
93 
Ending balance
$ 
1,218 $ 
1,650 
Currencies, net
Beginning balance
$ 
42 $ 
162 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
(27)  
80 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
1  
(182) 
Purchases
 
44  
2 
Sales
 
(9)  
(1) 
Settlements
 
(45)  
(56) 
Transfers into level 3
 
3  
4 
Transfers out of level 3
 
38  
33 
Ending balance
$ 
47 $ 
42 
Commodities, net
Beginning balance
$ 
628 $ 
919 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
(340)  
(113) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
91  
(373) 
Purchases
 
192  
4 
Sales
 
(27)  
(17) 
Settlements
 
57  
68 
Transfers into level 3
 
14  
122 
Transfers out of level 3
 
163  
18 
Ending balance
$ 
778 $ 
628 
Equities, net
 
 
Beginning balance
$ (1,071) $ 
(561) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
123  
147 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(139)  
32 
Purchases
 
155  
186 
Sales
 
(746)  
(944) 
Settlements
 
625  
169 
Transfers into level 3
 
(85)  
(115) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
32  
15 
Ending balance
$ (1,106) $ (1,071) 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
152
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2024. The net realized and unrealized losses on 
level 3 derivatives of $104 million (reflecting $129 million of 
net realized losses and $25 million of net unrealized gains) for 
2024 included gains/(losses) of $(115) million reported in 
market making and $11 million reported in other principal 
transactions. 
The net unrealized gains on level 3 derivatives for 2024 
primarily reflected gains on certain commodity derivatives 
(principally due to the impact of changes in commodity 
prices) and gains on certain interest rate derivatives 
(principally due to an increase in interest rates), partially 
offset by losses on certain equity derivatives (principally due 
to the impact of changes in equity prices).
The drivers of transfers into level 3 derivatives during 2024 
were not material.
Transfers out of level 3 derivatives during 2024 reflected 
transfers of certain credit derivative assets to level 2 
(principally due to increased transparency of certain credit 
spread inputs used to value these instruments), partially 
offset by transfers of certain commodity derivative liabilities 
to level 2 (principally due to increased transparency of certain 
commodity price inputs used to value these instruments).
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
2023. The net realized and unrealized losses on level 3 
derivatives of $262  million (reflecting $65  million of net 
realized gains and $327 million of net unrealized losses) for 
2023 included losses of $251  million reported in market 
making and $11  million reported in other principal 
transactions
The net unrealized losses on level 3 derivatives for 2023 
primarily reflected losses on certain commodity derivatives 
(principally due to the impact of changes in commodity 
prices), losses on certain currency derivatives (principally due 
to the impact of a decrease in interest rates), partially offset 
by gains on certain credit derivatives (principally due to the 
impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and a decrease in 
interest rates).
Transfers into level 3 derivatives during 2023 primarily 
reflected transfers of certain equity derivative liabilities 
(principally due to reduced transparency of certain 
unobservable 
volatility 
inputs 
used 
to 
value 
these 
instruments) and transfers of certain interest rate derivative 
liabilities 
from 
level 
2 
(principally 
due 
to 
certain 
unobservable volatility inputs becoming significant to the 
valuation of these instruments), partially offset by transfers 
of certain commodity derivative assets from level 2 
(principally due to certain unobservable volatility inputs 
becoming significant to the valuation of these instruments).
The drivers of transfers out of level 3 derivatives during 2023 
were not material.
Investments
Fair Value by Level. The table below presents investments 
accounted for at fair value by level within the fair value 
hierarchy. 
$ in millions
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As of December 2024
Government and agency obligations:
U.S.
$ 75,410 $ 
– $ 
– $ 75,410 
Non-U.S.
 
4,048  
62  
–  
4,110 
Corporate debt securities
 
137  
2,629  
4,510  
7,276 
Securities backed by real estate
 
–  
7  
562  
569 
Money market instruments
 
327  
1,453  
–  
1,780 
Other debt obligations
 
22  
53  
328  
403 
Equity securities
 
574  
3,331  
8,742  12,647 
Subtotal
$ 80,518 $ 7,535 $ 14,142 $ 102,195 
Investments in funds at NAV
 
 
  
2,547 
Total investments
 
 
 $ 104,742 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
 
Government and agency obligations:
 
 
 
U.S.
$ 46,731 $ 
– $ 
– $ 46,731 
Non-U.S.
 
2,399  
144  
–  
2,543 
Corporate debt securities
 
160  
2,299  
6,533  
8,992 
Securities backed by real estate
 
–  
2  
687  
689 
Money market instruments
 
52  
999  
–  
1,051 
Other debt obligations
 
9  
14  
244  
267 
Equity securities
 
721  
2,099  
9,674  12,494 
Subtotal
$ 50,072 $ 5,557 $ 17,138 $ 72,767 
Investments in funds at NAV
 
3,000 
Total investments
 
$ 75,767 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of investments. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
153
Significant Unobservable Inputs. The table below 
presents the amount of level 3 investments, and ranges and 
weighted averages of significant unobservable inputs used to 
value such investments. 
 
As of December 2024
As of December 2023
$ in millions
Amount or
Range
Weighted
 Average
Amount or 
Range
Weighted
 Average
Corporate debt securities
 
 
 
Level 3 assets
$ 
4,510  
$ 
6,533  
Yield
5.0% to 28.8%
 12.2% 
6.0% to 31.0%
 12.1% 
Recovery rate
5.8% to 41.0%
 25.2% 
7.3% to 41.2%
 27.6% 
Duration (years)
0.3 to 9.0
3.6
0.4 to 5.3
3.0
Multiples
1.1x to 34.2x
6.5x
0.9x to 53.3x
7.7x
Securities backed by real estate
 
 
Level 3 assets
$ 
562  
$ 
687  
Yield
9.5% to 16.0%
 13.6% 
7.4% to 18.8%
 14.1% 
Duration (years)
1.1 to 2.8
2.8
0.4 to 4.1
3.9
Other debt obligations
 
 
 
Level 3 assets
$ 
328 
$ 
244  
Yield
7.0% to 8.7%
 7.7% 
7.6% to 8.8%
 8.2% 
Equity securities
 
 
 
 
Level 3 assets
$ 
8,742  
$ 
9,674  
Multiples
0.4x to 34.2x
8.6x
0.5x to 25.2x
8.3x
Discount rate/yield
6.0% to 27.9%
 13.3% 
6.0% to 38.5%
 12.3% 
Capitalization rate
4.4% to 9.1%
 5.4% 
4.5% to 8.0%
 5.3% 
In the table above: 
• Ranges represent the significant unobservable inputs that 
were used in the valuation of each type of investment. 
• Weighted averages are calculated by weighting each input 
by the relative fair value of the investment. 
• The ranges and weighted averages of these inputs are not 
representative of the appropriate inputs to use when 
calculating the fair value of any one investment. For 
example, the highest multiple for private equity securities is 
appropriate for valuing a specific private equity security 
but may not be appropriate for valuing any other private 
equity security. Accordingly, the ranges of inputs do not 
represent uncertainty in, or possible ranges of, fair value 
measurements of level 3 investments. 
• Increases in yield, discount rate, capitalization rate or 
duration used in the valuation of level 3 investments would 
have resulted in a lower fair value measurement, while 
increases in recovery rate or multiples would have resulted 
in a higher fair value measurement as of both December 
2024 and December 2023. Due to the distinctive nature of 
each level 3 investment, the interrelationship of inputs is 
not necessarily uniform within each product type.
• Corporate debt securities, securities backed by real estate 
and other debt obligations are valued using discounted cash 
flows, and equity securities are valued using market 
comparables and discounted cash flows. 
• The fair value of any one instrument may be determined 
using multiple valuation techniques. For example, market 
comparables and discounted cash flows may be used 
together to determine fair value. Therefore, the level 3 
balance encompasses both of these techniques. 
Level 3 Rollforward. The table below presents a summary 
of the changes in fair value for level 3 investments. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Beginning balance
$ 17,138 $ 16,942 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
342  
463 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(287)  
(722) 
Purchases
 
1,395  
1,651 
Sales
 
(916)  
(1,186) 
Settlements
 
(2,322)  
(1,762) 
Transfers into level 3
 
953  
2,918 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(2,161)  
(1,166) 
Ending balance
$ 14,142 $ 17,138 
In the table above: 
• Changes in fair value are presented for all investments that 
are classified in level 3 as of the end of the period. 
• Net unrealized gains/(losses) relates to investments that 
were still held at period-end.
• Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are 
reported at the beginning of the reporting period in which 
they occur. If an investment was transferred to level 3 
during a reporting period, its entire gain or loss for the 
period is classified in level 3. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
154
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents information, by product type, for 
investments included in the summary table above. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate debt securities
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
6,533 $ 
7,003 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
179  
360 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(169)  
1 
Purchases
 
600  
590 
Sales
 
(306)  
(458) 
Settlements
 
(1,672)  
(1,110) 
Transfers into level 3
 
462  
755 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(1,117)  
(608) 
Ending balance
$ 
4,510 $ 
6,533 
Securities backed by real estate
 
Beginning balance
$ 
687 $ 
827 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
52  
12 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(82)  
(166) 
Purchases
 
53  
58 
Sales
 
(33)  
(148) 
Settlements
 
(114)  
(62) 
Transfers into level 3
 
1  
171 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(2)  
(5) 
Ending balance
$ 
562 $ 
687 
Other debt obligations
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
244 $ 
256 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
5  
4 
Purchases
 
141  
2 
Settlements
 
(31)  
(18) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(31)  
— 
Ending balance
$ 
328 $ 
244 
Equity securities
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
9,674 $ 
8,856 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
106  
87 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(36)  
(557) 
Purchases
 
601  
1,001 
Sales
 
(577)  
(580) 
Settlements
 
(505)  
(572) 
Transfers into level 3
 
490  
1,992 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(1,011)  
(553) 
Ending balance
$ 
8,742 $ 
9,674 
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2024. The net realized and unrealized gains on 
level 3 investments of $55 million (reflecting $342 million of 
net realized gains and $287 million of net unrealized losses) 
for 2024 included gains/(losses) of $(224) million reported in 
other principal transactions and $279 million reported in 
interest income. 
The net unrealized losses on level 3 investments for 2024 
primarily reflected losses on certain corporate debt securities 
(principally due to corporate performance and company-
specific events).
Transfers into level 3 investments during 2024 primarily 
reflected transfers of certain equity securities from level 2 
(principally due to reduced price transparency as a result of a 
lack of market evidence, including fewer market transactions 
in these instruments) and transfers of certain corporate debt 
securities from level 2 (principally due to certain 
unobservable yield inputs becoming significant to the 
valuation of these instruments).
Transfers out of level 3 investments during 2024 primarily 
reflected transfers of certain corporate debt securities to level 
2 (principally due to certain unobservable yield inputs no 
longer being significant to the valuation of these instruments 
and increased price transparency as a result of market 
evidence, including market transactions in these instruments) 
and transfers of certain equity securities to level 2 (principally 
due to increased price transparency as a result of market 
evidence, including market transactions in these instruments). 
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2023. The net realized and unrealized losses on 
level 3 investments of $259 million (reflecting $463 million of 
net realized gains and $722 million of net unrealized losses) 
for 2023 included gains/(losses) of $(820) million reported in 
other principal transactions and $561 million reported in 
interest income. 
The net unrealized losses on level 3 investments for 2023 
primarily reflected losses on certain equity securities and 
securities backed by real estate (in each case, principally due 
to ongoing weakness in the commercial real estate market).
Transfers into level 3 investments during 2023 primarily 
reflected transfers of certain equity securities and corporate 
debt securities from level 2 (in each case, principally due to 
reduced price transparency as a result of a lack of market 
evidence, including fewer market transactions in these 
instruments, and certain unobservable yield inputs becoming 
significant to the valuation of these instruments).
Transfers out of level 3 investments during 2023 primarily 
reflected transfers of certain corporate debt securities to level 
2 (principally due to increased price transparency as a result 
of market evidence, including market transactions in these 
instruments, and certain unobservable yield inputs becoming 
less significant to the valuation of these instruments), and 
transfers of certain equity securities to level 2 (principally due 
to increased price transparency as a result of market 
evidence, including market transactions in these instruments).
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
155
Loans
Fair Value by Level. The table below presents loans held 
for investment accounted for at fair value under the fair value 
option by level within the fair value hierarchy. 
$ in millions
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
 
Loan Type
 
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
– $ 
64 $ 
403 $ 
467 
Real estate:
Commercial
 
–  
349  
75  
424 
Residential 
 
–  
3,684  
42  
3,726 
Other collateralized
 
–  
648  
135  
783 
Other
 
–  
32  
28  
60 
Total
$ 
– $ 
4,777 $ 
683 $ 
5,460 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
Loan Type
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
– $ 
415 $ 
344 $ 
759 
Real estate:
Commercial 
 
–  
360  
203  
563 
Residential 
 
–  
4,087  
58  
4,145 
Other collateralized 
 
–  
775  
136  
911 
Other
 
–  
46  
82  
128 
Total
$ 
– $ 
5,683 $ 
823 $ 
6,506 
The gains/(losses) as a result of changes in the fair value of 
loans held for investment for which the fair value option was 
elected were not material for both 2024 and 2023. These 
gains/(losses) were included in other principal transactions. 
Significant Unobservable Inputs. The table below 
presents the amount of level 3 loans, and ranges and weighted 
averages of significant unobservable inputs used to value such 
loans.
 
As of December 2024
As of December 2023
$ in millions
Amount or
Range
Weighted
 Average
Amount or
Range
Weighted
 Average
Corporate
 
 
 
 
Level 3 assets
$ 
403 
 
$ 
344 
 
Yield
11.6% to 22.4%
 17.5% 
8.0% to 17.1%
 10.5% 
Recovery rate
37.2% to 95.6%
 72.9% 
2.0% to 95.0%
 74.0% 
Duration (years)
0.6 to 9.3
6.0
0.7 to 2.3
1.7
Real estate
 
 
 
Level 3 assets
$ 
117 
$ 
261 
Yield
6.1% to 10.9%
 6.7% 
5.0% to 21.4%
 18.1% 
Recovery rate
3.3% to 99.2%
 73.7% 
5.3% to 99.2%
 66.0% 
Duration (years)
0.2 to 3.6
0.6
0.5 to 6.2
1.6
Other collateralized
Level 3 assets
$ 
135 
$ 
136 
Yield
6.2% to 6.8%
 6.3% 
5.6% to 8.7%
 6.1% 
Other
Level 3 assets
$ 
28 
 
$ 
82 
Yield
N/A
N/A
7.3% to 13.5%
 9.6% 
Duration (years)
N/A
N/A
3.6 to 5.2 
4.2
In the table above: 
• Ranges represent the significant unobservable inputs that 
were used in the valuation of each type of loan. 
• Weighted averages are calculated by weighting each input 
by the relative fair value of the loan. 
• The ranges and weighted averages of these inputs are not 
representative of the appropriate inputs to use when 
calculating the fair value of any one loan. For example, the 
highest yield for corporate loans is appropriate for valuing 
a specific corporate loan but may not be appropriate for 
valuing any other corporate loan. Accordingly, the ranges 
of inputs do not represent uncertainty in, or possible ranges 
of, fair value measurements of level 3 loans. 
• Increases in yield or duration used in the valuation of level 
3 loans would have resulted in a lower fair value 
measurement, while increases in recovery rate would have 
resulted in a higher fair value measurement as of both 
December 2024 and December 2023. Due to the distinctive 
nature of each level 3 loan, the interrelationship of inputs is 
not necessarily uniform within each product type. 
• Loans are valued using discounted cash flows.  
• The significant unobservable inputs for yield and duration 
(related to other loans) as of December 2024 did not have a 
range (and there was no weighted average) as each 
pertained 
to 
a 
single 
position. 
Therefore, 
such 
unobservable inputs are not included in the table above.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
156
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Level 3 Rollforward. The table below presents a summary 
of the changes in fair value for level 3 loans. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Beginning balance
$ 
823 $ 
1,837 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
33  
26 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(41)  
(169) 
Purchases
 
135  
53 
Sales
 
(61)  
(540) 
Settlements
 
(286)  
(318) 
Transfers into level 3
 
124  
2 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(44)  
(68) 
Ending balance
$ 
683 $ 
823 
In the table above: 
• Changes in fair value are presented for loans that are 
classified in level 3 as of the end of the period. 
• Net unrealized gains/(losses) relates to loans that were still 
held at period-end.
• Purchases includes originations and secondary purchases. 
• Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are 
reported at the beginning of the reporting period in which 
they occur. If a loan was transferred to level 3 during a 
reporting period, its entire gain or loss for the period is 
classified in level 3. 
The table below presents information, by loan type, for loans 
included in the summary table above. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
344 
$ 
637 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
12 
 
10 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(26)  
(124) 
Purchases
 
127 
 
10 
Sales
 
(5)  
(47) 
Settlements
 
(160)  
(113) 
Transfers into level 3
 
111 
 
2 
Transfers out of level 3
 
– 
 
(31) 
Ending balance
$ 
403 
$ 
344 
Real estate
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
261 
$ 
785 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
9 
 
11 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(10)  
(42) 
Purchases
 
2 
 
7 
Sales
 
(52)  
(272) 
Settlements
 
(93)  
(192) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
– 
 
(36) 
Ending balance
$ 
117 
$ 
261 
Other collateralized
Beginning balance
$ 
136 
$ 
140 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
4 
 
1 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
1 
 
(6) 
Purchases
 
6 
 
5 
Sales
 
(3)  
(2) 
Settlements
 
(22)  
(2) 
Transfers into level 3
 
13 
 
– 
Ending balance
$ 
135 
$ 
136 
Other
 
Beginning balance
$ 
82 
$ 
275 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
8 
 
4 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(6)  
3 
Purchases
 
– 
 
31 
Sales
 
(1)  
(219) 
Settlements
 
(11)  
(11) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
(44)  
(1) 
Ending balance
$ 
28 
$ 
82 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
157
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2024. The net realized and unrealized losses on 
level 3 loans of $8 million (reflecting $33 million of net 
realized gains and $41 million of net unrealized losses) for 
2024 included gains/(losses) of $(13) million reported in other 
principal transactions and $5 million reported in interest 
income. 
The drivers of the net unrealized losses on level 3 loans for 
2024 were not material.
Transfers into level 3 loans during 2024 primarily reflected 
transfers of certain corporate loans from level 2 (principally 
due to reduced price transparency as a result of a lack of 
market evidence, including fewer market transactions in these 
instruments).
The drivers of the transfers out of level 3 loans during 2024 
were not material.
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2023. The net realized and unrealized losses on 
level 3 loans of $143 million (reflecting $26 million of net 
realized gains and $169 million of net unrealized losses) for 
2023 included gains/(losses) of $(152) million reported in 
other principal transactions and $9 million reported in 
interest income. 
The net unrealized losses on level 3 loans for 2023 primarily 
reflected losses on corporate loans (principally due to 
company-specific events).
The drivers of both transfers into and transfers out of level 3 
loans during 2023 were not material.
Other Financial Assets and Liabilities
Fair Value by Level. The table below presents, by level 
within the fair value hierarchy, other financial assets and 
liabilities at fair value, substantially all of which are 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option. 
$ in millions
Level 1
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
As of December 2024
 
 
 
 
Assets
 
 
 
 
Resale agreements
$ 
– $ 179,793 $ 
– $ 179,793 
Securities borrowed
 
–  
46,902  
–  
46,902 
Customer and other receivables
 
–  
23  
–  
23 
Other assets
 
–  
–  
194  
194 
Total
$ 
– $ 226,718 $ 
194 $ 226,912 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Deposits
$ 
– $ (41,810) $ (3,045) $ (44,855) 
Repurchase agreements
 
–  (274,380)  
–  (274,380) 
Securities loaned
 
–  
(10,246)  
–  
(10,246) 
Other secured financings
 
–  
(27,434)  
(551)  
(27,985) 
Unsecured borrowings:
 
 
 
 
Short-term
 
–  
(45,073)  
(5,294)  
(50,367) 
Long-term
 
–  
(75,810)  (13,379)  
(89,189) 
Other liabilities
 
–  
(8)  
(76)  
(84) 
Total
$ 
– $ (474,761) $ (22,345) $ (497,106) 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
 
Assets
 
 
 
 
Resale agreements
$ 
– $ 223,543 $ 
– $ 223,543 
Securities borrowed
 
–  
44,930  
–  
44,930 
Customer and other receivables
 
–  
23  
–  
23 
Other assets
 
–  
179  
187  
366 
Total
$ 
– $ 268,675 $ 
187 $ 268,862 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Deposits
$ 
– $ (26,723) $ (2,737) $ (29,460) 
Repurchase agreements
 
–  (249,887)  
–  (249,887) 
Securities loaned
 
–  
(8,934)  
–  
(8,934) 
Other secured financings
 
–  
(10,532)  
(2,022)  
(12,554) 
Unsecured borrowings:
 
 
 
 
Short-term
 
–  
(40,538)  
(5,589)  
(46,127) 
Long-term
 
–  
(72,562)  (13,848)  
(86,410) 
Other liabilities
 
–  
(187)  
(79)  
(266) 
Total
$ 
– $ (409,363) $ (24,275) $ (433,638) 
In the table above, assets are shown as positive amounts and 
liabilities are shown as negative amounts. 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of other financial 
assets and liabilities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
158
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Significant 
Unobservable 
Inputs. 
See 
below 
for 
information about the significant unobservable inputs used to 
value level 3 other financial assets and liabilities at fair value 
as of both December 2024 and December 2023. 
Other Secured Financings. The ranges and weighted 
averages of significant unobservable inputs used to value level 
3 other secured financings are presented below. These ranges 
and weighted averages exclude unobservable inputs that are 
only relevant to a single instrument, and therefore are not 
meaningful. 
As of December 2024: 
• Yield: 3.8% to 12.3% (weighted average: 8.9%) 
• Duration: 2.0 to 5.4 years (weighted average: 2.9 years) 
As of December 2023: 
• Yield: 6.7% to 11.3% (weighted average: 8.5%) 
• Duration: 0.1 to 4.5 years (weighted average: 0.9 years) 
Generally, increases in yield or duration, in isolation, would 
have resulted in a lower fair value measurement as of period-
end. Due to the distinctive nature of each of level 3 other 
secured financings, the interrelationship of inputs is not 
necessarily uniform across such financings. See Note 11 for 
further information about other secured financings. 
Deposits, Unsecured Borrowings and Other Assets 
and Liabilities. Substantially all of the firm’s deposits, 
unsecured short- and long-term borrowings, and other assets 
and liabilities that are classified in level 3 are hybrid financial 
instruments. As the significant unobservable inputs used to 
value hybrid financial instruments primarily relate to the 
embedded derivative component of these deposits, unsecured 
borrowings 
and 
other 
assets 
and 
liabilities, 
these 
unobservable inputs are incorporated in the firm’s derivative 
disclosures. See Note 12 for further information about other 
assets, Note 13 for further information about deposits, Note 
14 for further information about unsecured borrowings and 
Note 15 for further information about other liabilities. 
Level 3 Rollforward. The table below presents a summary 
of the changes in fair value for level 3 other financial assets 
and liabilities accounted for at fair value. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Assets
Beginning balance
$ 
187 $ 
74 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
–  
(2) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
18  
95 
Purchases
 
–  
20 
Sales
 
(11)  
– 
Ending balance
$ 
194 $ 
187 
Liabilities
Beginning balance
$ (24,275) $ (18,826) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
(210)  
(212) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
715  
(1,667) 
Issuances
 
(9,768)  
(8,153) 
Settlements
 
11,040  
8,298 
Transfers into level 3
 
(1,835)  
(4,542) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
1,988  
827 
Ending balance
$ (22,345) $ (24,275) 
In the table above: 
• Changes in fair value are presented for all other financial 
assets and liabilities that are classified in level 3 as of the 
end of the period. 
• Net unrealized gains/(losses) relates to other financial 
assets and liabilities that were still held at period-end.
• Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are 
reported at the beginning of the reporting period in which 
they occur. If a financial instrument was transferred to 
level 3 during a reporting period, its entire gain or loss for 
the period is classified in level 3. 
• For level 3 other financial assets, increases are shown as 
positive amounts, while decreases are shown as negative 
amounts. For level 3 other financial liabilities, increases are 
shown as negative amounts, while decreases are shown as 
positive amounts. 
• Level 3 other financial assets and liabilities are frequently 
economically hedged with trading assets and liabilities. 
Accordingly, gains or losses that are classified in level 3 can 
be partially offset by gains or losses attributable to level 1, 
2 or 3 trading assets and liabilities. As a result, gains or 
losses included in the level 3 rollforward below do not 
necessarily represent the overall impact on the firm’s 
results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
159
The table below presents information, by the consolidated 
balance sheet line items, for other financial liabilities included 
in the summary table above. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Deposits
 
 
Beginning balance
$ (2,737) $ (2,743) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
–  
(2) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
(96)  
(140) 
Issuances
 
(1,086)  
(506) 
Settlements
 
928  
773 
Transfers into level 3
 
(173)  
(153) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
119  
34 
Ending balance
$ (3,045) $ (2,737) 
Other secured financings
 
 
Beginning balance
$ (2,022) $ (1,842) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
(1)  
(19) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
12  
(50) 
Issuances
 
(51)  
(657) 
Settlements
 
1,615  
1,479 
Transfers into level 3
 
(104)  
(941) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
–  
8 
Ending balance
$ 
(551) $ (2,022) 
Unsecured short-term borrowings
 
Beginning balance
$ (5,589) $ (4,090) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
(6)  
(36) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
9  
(563) 
Issuances
 
(4,883)  
(4,315) 
Settlements
 
4,700  
3,418 
Transfers into level 3
 
(101)  
(281) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
576  
278 
Ending balance
$ (5,294) $ (5,589) 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
 
Beginning balance
$ (13,848) $ (10,066) 
Net realized gains/(losses)
 
(203)  
(155) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
787  
(914) 
Issuances
 
(3,748)  
(2,675) 
Settlements
 
3,797  
2,622 
Transfers into level 3
 
(1,457)  
(3,167) 
Transfers out of level 3
 
1,293  
507 
Ending balance
$ (13,379) $ (13,848) 
Other liabilities
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
(79) $ 
(85) 
Net unrealized gains/(losses)
 
3  
– 
Settlements
 
–  
6 
Ending balance
$ 
(76) $ 
(79) 
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2024. The net realized and unrealized gains on 
level 3 other financial liabilities of $505 million (reflecting 
$210 million of net realized losses and $715 million of net 
unrealized gains) for 2024 included gains/(losses) of $491 
million reported in market making, $(42) million reported in 
other principal transactions and $(1) million reported in 
interest expense in the consolidated statements of earnings, 
and $57 million reported in debt valuation adjustment in the 
consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 
The net unrealized gains on level 3 other financial liabilities 
for 2024 primarily reflected gains on certain hybrid financial 
instruments included in unsecured long-term borrowings 
(principally due to the impact of increases in interest rates 
and changes in foreign exchange rates), partially offset by 
losses on certain hybrid financial instruments included in 
deposits (principally due to an increase in equity prices).
Transfers into level 3 other financial liabilities during 2024 
primarily reflected transfers of certain hybrid financial 
instruments included in unsecured long-term borrowings 
from level 2 (principally due to reduced transparency of 
certain credit spreads and volatility inputs used to value these 
instruments).
Transfers out of level 3 other financial liabilities during 2024 
primarily reflected transfers of certain hybrid financial 
instruments included in long- and short-term borrowings to 
level 2 (principally due to increased transparency of certain 
volatility inputs used to value these instruments).
Level 3 Rollforward Commentary for the Year Ended 
December 2023. The net realized and unrealized losses on 
level 3 other financial liabilities of $1.88 billion (reflecting 
$212 million of net realized losses and $1.67 billion of net 
unrealized losses) for 2023 included losses of $1.41 billion 
reported in market making, $23 million reported in other 
principal transactions and $22 million reported in interest 
expense in the consolidated statements of earnings, and $427 
million reported in debt valuation adjustment in the 
consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 
The net unrealized losses on level 3 other financial liabilities 
for 2023 primarily reflected losses on certain hybrid financial 
instruments included in unsecured long- and short-term 
borrowings (principally due to an increase in global equity 
prices).
Transfers into level 3 other financial liabilities during 2023 
primarily reflected transfers of certain hybrid financial 
instruments included in unsecured long-term borrowings 
from level 2 (principally due to reduced price transparency of 
certain credit spread and volatility inputs used to value these 
instruments) and transfers of certain other secured financings 
from level 2 (principally due to reduced price transparency of 
certain yield and duration inputs used to value these 
instruments).
Transfers out of level 3 other financial liabilities during 2023 
primarily reflected transfers of certain hybrid financial 
instruments included in unsecured long- and short-term 
borrowings to level 2 (principally due to increased price 
transparency of certain volatility inputs used to value these 
instruments).
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
160
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 6. 
Trading Assets and Liabilities 
Trading assets and liabilities include trading cash instruments 
and derivatives held in connection with the firm’s market-
making or risk management activities. These assets and 
liabilities are carried at fair value either under the fair value 
option or in accordance with other U.S. GAAP, and the 
related fair value gains and losses are generally recognized in 
the consolidated statements of earnings.
The table below presents a summary of trading assets and 
liabilities. 
Trading
Trading
$ in millions
Assets
Liabilities
As of December 2024
 
 
Trading cash instruments
$ 523,216 
$ 127,575 
Derivatives
 
47,339 
 
74,980 
Total
$ 570,555 
$ 202,555 
As of December 2023
 
 
Trading cash instruments
$ 426,390 
$ 143,601 
Derivatives
 
51,120 
 
56,754 
Total
$ 477,510 
$ 200,355 
See Note 5 for further information about trading cash 
instruments and Note 7 for further information about 
derivatives.
Gains and Losses from Market Making 
The table below presents market making revenues by major 
product type. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Interest rates
$ 
715 $ 
4,437 $ (4,890) 
Credit
 
2,467  
1,141  
1,095 
Currencies
 
6,292  
2,827  11,662 
Equities
 
7,632  
7,938  
7,734 
Commodities
 
1,284  
1,895  
3,033 
Total
$ 18,390 $ 18,238 $ 18,634 
In the table above: 
• Gains/(losses) include both realized and unrealized gains 
and losses. Gains/(losses) exclude related interest income 
and interest expense. See Note 23 for further information 
about interest income and interest expense.
• Gains/(losses) included in market making are primarily 
related to the firm’s trading assets and liabilities, including 
both derivative and non-derivative financial instruments.
• Gains/(losses) are not representative of the manner in 
which the firm manages its business activities because 
many of the firm’s market-making and client facilitation 
strategies utilize financial instruments across various 
product types. Accordingly, gains or losses in one product 
type frequently offset gains or losses in other product types. 
For example, most of the firm’s longer-term derivatives 
across product types are sensitive to changes in interest 
rates and may be economically hedged with interest rate 
swaps. Similarly, a significant portion of the firm’s trading 
cash instruments and derivatives across product types has 
exposure to foreign currencies and may be economically 
hedged with foreign currency contracts.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
161
Note 7. 
Derivatives and Hedging Activities 
Derivative Activities 
Derivatives are instruments that derive their value from 
underlying asset prices, indices, reference rates and other 
inputs, or a combination of these factors. Derivatives may be 
traded on an exchange (exchange-traded) or they may be 
privately negotiated contracts, which are usually referred to 
as OTC derivatives. Certain of the firm’s OTC derivatives 
are 
cleared 
and 
settled 
through 
central 
clearing 
counterparties (OTC-cleared), while others are bilateral 
contracts between two counterparties (bilateral OTC). 
Market Making. As a market maker, the firm enters into 
derivative transactions to provide liquidity to clients and to 
facilitate the transfer and hedging of their risks. In this role, 
the firm typically acts as principal and is required to commit 
capital to provide execution, and maintains market-making 
positions in response to, or in anticipation of, client demand. 
Risk Management. The firm also enters into derivatives to 
actively manage risk exposures that arise from its market-
making and investing and financing activities. The firm’s 
holdings and exposures are hedged, in many cases, on either a 
portfolio or risk-specific basis, as opposed to an instrument-
by-instrument basis. The offsetting impact of this economic 
hedging is reflected in the same business segment as the 
related revenues. In addition, the firm may enter into 
derivatives designated as hedges under U.S. GAAP. These 
derivatives are used to manage interest rate exposure of 
certain fixed-rate unsecured borrowings and deposits and 
certain U.S. and non-U.S. government securities classified as 
available-for-sale, foreign exchange risk of certain available-
for-sale securities, the net investment in certain non-U.S. 
operations and the exposure to the variability of the 
forecasted cash flows associated with certain floating-rate 
assets.
The firm enters into various types of derivatives, including: 
• Futures 
and 
Forwards. 
Contracts 
that 
commit 
counterparties to purchase or sell financial instruments, 
commodities or currencies in the future. 
• Swaps. Contracts that require counterparties to exchange 
cash flows, such as currency or interest payment streams. 
The amounts exchanged are based on the specific terms of 
the contract with reference to specified rates, financial 
instruments, commodities, currencies or indices. 
• Options. Contracts in which the option purchaser has the 
right, but not the obligation, to purchase from or sell to the 
option writer financial instruments, commodities or 
currencies within a defined time period for a specified 
price. 
Derivatives are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis (i.e., 
the net payable or receivable for derivative assets and 
liabilities for a given counterparty) when a legal right of 
setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement 
(counterparty netting). Derivatives are accounted for at fair 
value, net of cash collateral received or posted under 
enforceable credit support agreements (cash collateral 
netting). Derivative assets are included in trading assets and 
derivative liabilities are included in trading liabilities. 
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on derivatives not 
designated as hedges are included in market making (for 
derivatives included in Fixed Income, Currency and 
Commodities (FICC) and Equities within Global Banking & 
Markets), and other principal transactions (for derivatives 
included in Investment banking fees and Other within Global 
Banking & Markets, as well as derivatives in Asset & Wealth 
Management) in the consolidated statements of earnings. For 
both 2024 and 2023, substantially all of the firm’s derivatives 
were included in Global Banking & Markets. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
162
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The tables below present the gross fair value and the notional 
amounts of derivative contracts by major product type, the 
amounts of counterparty and cash collateral netting in the 
consolidated balance sheets, as well as cash and securities 
collateral posted and received under enforceable credit 
support agreements that do not meet the criteria for netting 
under U.S. GAAP.
Fair Value as of December
 
2024
2023
$ in millions
Derivative
 Assets 
Derivative
 Liabilities 
Derivative
 Assets 
Derivative
 Liabilities 
Not accounted for as hedges 
Exchange-traded
$ 
2,706 $ 
1,068 
$ 
3,401 $ 
1,129 
OTC-cleared
 
1,746  
2,428 
 
67,815  
64,490 
Bilateral OTC
 
152,083  
121,515 
 
171,109  
149,444 
Total interest rates
 
156,535  
125,011 
 
242,325  
215,063 
OTC-cleared
 
1,787  
1,893 
 
1,271  
1,533 
Bilateral OTC
 
9,650  
8,137 
 
11,554  
8,601 
Total credit
 
11,437  
10,030 
 
12,825  
10,134 
Exchange-traded
 
142  
6 
 
708  
15 
OTC-cleared
 
1,325  
993 
 
1,033  
1,632 
Bilateral OTC
 
112,838  
113,608 
 
88,158  
95,742 
Total currencies
 
114,305  
114,607 
 
89,899  
97,389 
Exchange-traded
 
5,563  
5,917 
 
5,468  
5,998 
OTC-cleared
 
558  
650 
 
635  
711 
Bilateral OTC
 
7,205  
7,958 
 
10,739  
11,234 
Total commodities
 
13,326  
14,525 
 
16,842  
17,943 
Exchange-traded
 
55,049  
83,475 
 
31,315  
39,247 
OTC-cleared
 
189  
131 
 
122  
171 
Bilateral OTC
 
24,941  
44,900 
 
28,601  
40,696 
Total equities
 
80,179  
128,506 
 
60,038  
80,114 
Subtotal
 
375,782  
392,679 
 
421,929  
420,643 
Accounted for as hedges 
 
 
 
Bilateral OTC
 
201  
8 
 
298  
9 
Total interest rates
 
201  
8 
 
298  
9 
OTC-cleared
 
114  
3 
 
–  
7 
Bilateral OTC
 
255  
5 
 
5  
208 
Total currencies
 
369  
8 
 
5  
215 
Subtotal
 
570  
16 
 
303  
224 
Total gross fair value
$ 376,352 $ 392,695 
$ 422,232 $ 420,867 
Offset in the consolidated balance sheets 
Exchange-traded
$ (57,776) $ (57,776) $ (32,722) $ (32,722) 
OTC-cleared
 
(4,867)  
(4,867)  
(67,272)  
(67,272) 
Bilateral OTC
 (218,269)  (218,269)  (221,395)  (221,395) 
Counterparty netting
 (280,912)  (280,912)  (321,389)  (321,389) 
OTC-cleared
 
(412)  
(105)  
(1,335)  
(486) 
Bilateral OTC
 
(47,689)  
(36,698)  
(48,388)  
(42,238) 
Cash collateral netting
 
(48,101)  
(36,803)  
(49,723)  
(42,724) 
Total amounts offset
$ (329,013) $ (317,715) $ (371,112) $ (364,113) 
Included in the consolidated balance sheets 
 
Exchange-traded
$ 
5,684 $ 
32,690 
$ 
8,170 $ 
13,667 
OTC-cleared
 
440  
1,126 
 
2,269  
786 
Bilateral OTC
 
41,215  
41,164 
 
40,681  
42,301 
Total
$ 
47,339 $ 
74,980 
$ 
51,120 $ 
56,754 
Not offset in the consolidated balance sheets 
 
Cash collateral
$ 
(600) $ 
(1,271) $ 
(877) $ 
(2,732) 
Securities collateral
 
(14,938)  
(8,731)  
(13,425)  
(6,516) 
Total
$ 
31,801 $ 
64,978 
$ 
36,818 $ 
47,506 
 
Notional Amounts as of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Not accounted for as hedges
Exchange-traded
$ 
2,332,117 $ 
3,854,689 
OTC-cleared
 
12,571,690  
16,007,915 
Bilateral OTC
 
10,569,501  
12,390,595 
Total interest rates
 
25,473,308  
32,253,199 
Exchange-traded
 
322  
299 
OTC-cleared
 
660,181  
498,720 
Bilateral OTC
 
619,068  
619,975 
Total credit
 
1,279,571  
1,118,994 
Exchange-traded
 
9,264  
11,586 
OTC-cleared
 
429,858  
268,293 
Bilateral OTC
 
6,031,944  
6,363,700 
Total currencies
 
6,471,066  
6,643,579 
Exchange-traded
 
324,159  
306,787 
OTC-cleared
 
3,087  
3,323 
Bilateral OTC
 
183,174  
199,270 
Total commodities
 
510,420  
509,380 
Exchange-traded
 
1,868,855  
1,564,341 
OTC-cleared
 
1,475  
1,487 
Bilateral OTC
 
1,256,905  
1,204,140 
Total equities
 
3,127,235  
2,769,968 
Subtotal
 
36,861,600  
43,295,120 
Accounted for as hedges
OTC-cleared
 
246,765  
241,160 
Bilateral OTC
 
3,588  
2,914 
Total interest rates
 
250,353  
244,074 
OTC-cleared
 
5,041  
1,227 
Bilateral OTC
 
10,328  
9,130 
Total currencies
 
15,369  
10,357 
Subtotal
 
265,722  
254,431 
Total notional amounts
$ 
37,127,322 $ 
43,549,551 
In the tables above:  
• Gross fair values exclude the effects of both counterparty 
netting and collateral, and therefore are not representative 
of the firm’s exposure. 
• Amounts presented for collateral not offset in the 
consolidated balance sheets consists of collateral received 
or posted in connection with OTC-cleared and bilateral 
OTC derivatives under enforceable credit support 
agreements that do not meet the criteria for netting under 
U.S. GAAP. In addition to collateral presented in the table 
above, the firm also posts or receives collateral in 
connection with its transactions with certain exchanges in 
accordance with the exchanges’ margin requirements. Such 
collateral may be calculated based on the firm’s total 
exposure to the respective exchange across all product 
types, including both derivative and non-derivative 
instruments. See Note 11 for further information about 
collateral received and pledged.
• Total gross fair value of derivatives included derivative 
assets of $8.55 billion as of December 2024 and $8.98 billion 
as of December 2023, and derivative liabilities of $10.84 
billion as of December 2024 and $16.03 billion as of 
December 2023, which are not subject to an enforceable 
netting agreement or are subject to a netting agreement that 
the firm has not yet determined to be enforceable. The 
collateral received or posted in connection with such 
derivative agreements has not been netted. 
• Notional amounts, which represent the sum of gross long 
and short derivative contracts, provide an indication of the 
volume of the firm’s derivative activity and do not 
represent anticipated losses. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
163
• During 2024, as permitted under the rules of a clearing 
organization in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), 
the firm elected to settle its transactions with this clearing 
organization on a daily basis. The impact of reflecting 
transactions with this clearing organization as settled 
would have been a reduction in gross derivative assets of 
$64.19 billion and a reduction in gross derivative liabilities 
of $62.86 billion as of December 2023, and a corresponding 
decrease in counterparty and cash collateral netting, with 
no impact to the consolidated balance sheets.
OTC Derivatives 
The table below presents OTC derivative assets and liabilities 
by tenor and major product type. 
$ in millions
Less than
 1 Year
1 - 5
 Years 
Greater than  
5 Years
Total 
As of December 2024
Assets
Interest rates
$ 5,880 $ 9,552 $ 
46,625 $ 62,057 
Credit
 
1,664  
2,576  
1,605  
5,845 
Currencies
 17,249  
8,280  
5,387  30,916 
Commodities
 
1,908  
1,882  
1,026  
4,816 
Equities
 
5,483  
2,395  
1,959  
9,837 
Counterparty netting in tenors
 
(2,681)  (2,683)  
(4,271)  
(9,635) 
Subtotal
$ 29,503 $ 22,002 $ 
52,331 $ 103,836 
Cross-tenor counterparty netting
 
 
  (14,080) 
Cash collateral netting
 
 
  (48,101) 
Total OTC derivative assets
 
 
 $ 41,655 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Interest rates
$ 5,074 $ 10,858 $ 
16,049 $ 31,981 
Credit
 
999  
2,474  
963  
4,436 
Currencies
 12,931  
9,645  
8,417  30,993 
Commodities
 
2,012  
2,448  
1,201  
5,661 
Equities
 11,435  15,113  
3,189  29,737 
Counterparty netting in tenors
 
(2,681)  (2,683)  
(4,271)  
(9,635) 
Subtotal
$ 29,770 $ 37,855 $ 
25,548 $ 93,173 
Cross-tenor counterparty netting
 
 
  (14,080) 
Cash collateral netting
 
 
  (36,803) 
Total OTC derivative liabilities
 
 $ 42,290 
As of December 2023
Assets
Interest rates
$ 
9,511 $ 12,178 $ 
49,045 $ 70,734 
Credit
 
1,814  
3,283  
1,961  
7,058 
Currencies
 
9,117  
7,579  
5,479  
22,175 
Commodities
 
2,993  
2,574  
1,451  
7,018 
Equities
 
6,625  
3,155  
1,655  
11,435 
Counterparty netting in tenors
 
(3,046)  (2,765)  
(3,648)  
(9,459) 
Subtotal
$ 27,014 $ 26,004 $ 
55,943 $ 108,961 
Cross-tenor counterparty netting
 (16,288) 
Cash collateral netting
 (49,723) 
Total OTC derivative assets
$ 42,950 
Liabilities
Interest rates
$ 11,952 $ 15,972 $ 
17,540 $ 45,464 
Credit
 
792  
2,508  
1,067  
4,367 
Currencies
 
15,335  
7,934  
7,299  
30,568 
Commodities
 
2,526  
3,643  
1,419  
7,588 
Equities
 
10,183  10,048  
3,340  
23,571 
Counterparty netting in tenors
 
(3,046)  (2,765)  
(3,648)  
(9,459) 
Subtotal
$ 37,742 $ 37,340 $ 
27,017 $ 102,099 
Cross-tenor counterparty netting
 (16,288) 
Cash collateral netting
 (42,724) 
Total OTC derivative liabilities
$ 43,087 
In the table above: 
• Tenor is based on the remaining contractual maturity for 
substantially all OTC derivative assets and liabilities. 
• Counterparty netting within the same product type and 
tenor category is included within such product type and 
tenor category. 
• Counterparty netting across product types within the same 
tenor category is included in counterparty netting in tenors. 
Where the counterparty netting is across tenor categories, 
the netting is included in cross-tenor counterparty netting. 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of derivatives, and 
Note 5 for further information about derivatives within the 
fair value hierarchy.
Credit Derivatives 
The firm enters into a broad array of credit derivatives to 
facilitate client transactions and to manage the credit risk 
associated with market-making and investing and financing 
activities. Credit derivatives are actively managed based on 
the firm’s net risk position. Credit derivatives are generally 
individually negotiated contracts and can have various 
settlement and payment conventions. Credit events include 
failure to pay, bankruptcy, acceleration of indebtedness, 
restructuring, repudiation and dissolution of the reference 
entity. 
The firm enters into the following types of credit derivatives: 
• Credit Default Swaps. Single-name credit default swaps 
protect the buyer against the loss of principal on one or 
more bonds, loans or mortgages (reference obligations) in 
the event the issuer of the reference obligations suffers a 
credit event. The buyer of protection pays an initial or 
periodic premium to the seller and receives protection for 
the period of the contract. If there is no credit event, as 
defined in the contract, the seller of protection makes no 
payments to the buyer. If a credit event occurs, the seller of 
protection is required to make a payment to the buyer, 
calculated according to the terms of the contract.
• Credit Options. In a credit option, the option writer 
assumes the obligation to purchase or sell a reference 
obligation at a specified price or credit spread. The option 
purchaser buys the right, but does not assume the 
obligation, to sell the reference obligation to, or purchase it 
from, the option writer. The payments on credit options 
depend either on a particular credit spread or the price of 
the reference obligation.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
164
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Credit 
Indices, 
Baskets 
and 
Tranches. 
Credit 
derivatives may reference a basket of single-name credit 
default swaps or a broad-based index. If a credit event 
occurs in one of the underlying reference obligations, the 
protection seller pays the protection buyer. The payment is 
typically a pro-rata portion of the transaction’s total 
notional amount based on the underlying defaulted 
reference obligation. In certain transactions, the credit risk 
of a basket or index is separated into various portions 
(tranches), each having different levels of subordination. 
The most junior tranches cover initial defaults and once 
losses exceed the notional amount of these junior tranches, 
any excess loss is covered by the next most senior tranche. 
• Total Return Swaps. A total return swap transfers the 
risks relating to economic performance of a reference 
obligation from the protection buyer to the protection 
seller. Typically, the protection buyer receives a floating 
rate of interest and protection against any reduction in fair 
value of the reference obligation, and the protection seller 
receives the cash flows associated with the reference 
obligation, plus any increase in the fair value of the 
reference obligation. 
The firm economically hedges its exposure to written credit 
derivatives primarily by entering into offsetting purchased 
credit derivatives with identical underliers. Substantially all 
of the firm’s purchased credit derivative transactions are with 
financial institutions and are subject to stringent collateral 
thresholds. In addition, upon the occurrence of a specified 
trigger event, the firm may take possession of the reference 
obligations underlying a particular written credit derivative, 
and consequently may, upon liquidation of the reference 
obligations, recover amounts on the underlying reference 
obligations in the event of default. 
The table below presents information about credit 
derivatives. 
 
Credit Spread on Underlier (basis points)
$ in millions
0 - 250
251 -
 500
501 -
 1,000
Greater
 than
 1,000
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum Payout/Notional Amount of Written Credit Derivatives by Tenor
Less than 1 year
$ 137,145 $ 23,875 $ 
717 $ 3,041 $ 164,778 
1 - 5 years
 378,743  15,349  
4,242  
6,194  404,528 
Greater than 5 years
 
29,196  
2,457  
471  
64  32,188 
Total
$ 545,084 $ 41,681 $ 5,430 $ 9,299 $ 601,494 
Maximum Payout/Notional Amount of Purchased Credit Derivatives
Offsetting
$ 463,919 $ 20,691 $ 4,781 $ 8,264 $ 497,655 
Other
 165,662  11,721  
1,879  
1,160  180,422 
Total
$ 629,581 $ 32,412 $ 6,660 $ 9,424 $ 678,077 
Fair Value of Written Credit Derivatives
Asset
$ 
6,429 $ 
664 $ 
31 $ 
59 $ 7,183 
Liability
 
985  
314  
307  
1,138  
2,744 
Net asset/(liability)
$ 
5,444 $ 
350 $ 
(276) $ (1,079) $ 4,439 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum Payout/Notional Amount of Written Credit Derivatives by Tenor
Less than 1 year
$ 126,667 $ 12,594 $ 
892 $ 3,611 $ 143,764 
1 - 5 years
 324,577  11,371  
5,613  
5,802  347,363 
Greater than 5 years
 
30,406  
1,316  
671  
249  
32,642 
Total
$ 481,650 $ 25,281 $ 7,176 $ 9,662 $ 523,769 
Maximum Payout/Notional Amount of Purchased Credit Derivatives
Offsetting
$ 396,984 $ 11,857 $ 6,241 $ 8,246 $ 423,328 
Other
 155,468  12,862  
1,948  
1,619  171,897 
Total
$ 552,452 $ 24,719 $ 8,189 $ 9,865 $ 595,225 
Fair Value of Written Credit Derivatives
Asset
$ 11,147 $ 
654 $ 
221 $ 
165 $ 12,187 
Liability
 
1,723  
47  
201  
1,034  
3,005 
Net asset/(liability)
$ 
9,424 $ 
607 $ 
20 $ 
(869) $ 
9,182 
In the table above: 
• Fair values exclude the effects of both netting of receivable 
balances with payable balances under enforceable netting 
agreements, and netting of cash received or posted under 
enforceable credit support agreements, and therefore are 
not representative of the firm’s credit exposure.
• Tenor is based on the remaining contractual maturity for 
substantially all written credit derivatives.
• The credit spread on the underlier, together with the tenor 
of the contract, are indicators of payment/performance 
risk. The firm is less likely to pay or otherwise be required 
to perform where the credit spread and the tenor are lower.
• Offsetting purchased credit derivatives represent the 
notional amount of purchased credit derivatives that 
economically hedge written credit derivatives with identical 
underliers.
• Other purchased credit derivatives represent the notional 
amount of all other purchased credit derivatives not 
included in offsetting.
• Written and purchased credit derivatives primarily consist 
of credit default swaps. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
165
Impact of Credit and Funding Spreads on Derivatives 
The firm realizes gains or losses on its derivative contracts. 
These gains or losses include credit valuation adjustments 
(CVAs) relating to uncollateralized derivative assets and 
liabilities, which represent the gains or losses (including 
hedges) attributable to the impact of changes in credit 
exposure, counterparty credit spreads, liability funding 
spreads (which include the firm’s own credit), probability of 
default and assumed recovery. These gains or losses also 
include funding valuation adjustments (FVA) relating to 
uncollateralized derivative assets, which represent the gains 
or losses (including hedges) attributable to the impact of 
changes in expected funding exposures and funding spreads. 
The table below presents information about CVA and FVA. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
CVA, net of hedges
$ 
187 $ 
(139) $ 
320 
FVA, net of hedges
 
142  
131  
(193) 
Total
$ 
329 $ 
(8) $ 
127 
Bifurcated Embedded Derivatives 
The table below presents the fair value and the notional 
amount of derivatives that have been bifurcated from their 
related borrowings. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Fair value of assets
$ 
467 $ 
450 
Fair value of liabilities
 
(175)  
(307) 
Net asset/(liability)
$ 
292 $ 
143 
 
Notional amount
$ 
8,106 $ 
8,082 
In the table above, derivatives that have been bifurcated from 
their related borrowings are recorded at fair value and 
primarily consist of interest rate, equity and commodity 
products. These derivatives are included in unsecured short- 
and long-term borrowings, as well as other secured 
financings, with the related borrowings. 
Derivatives with Credit-Related Contingent Features 
Certain of the firm’s derivatives have been transacted under 
bilateral agreements with counterparties who may require the 
firm to post collateral or terminate the transactions based on 
changes in the firm’s credit ratings. The firm assesses the 
impact of these bilateral agreements by determining the 
collateral or termination payments that would occur 
assuming a downgrade by all rating agencies. A downgrade 
by any one rating agency, depending on the agency’s relative 
ratings of the firm at the time of the downgrade, may have an 
impact which is comparable to the impact of a downgrade by 
all rating agencies. 
The table below presents information about net derivative 
liabilities under bilateral agreements (excluding collateral 
posted), the fair value of collateral posted and additional 
collateral or termination payments that could have been 
called by counterparties in the event of a one- or two-notch 
downgrade in the firm’s credit ratings. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements
$ 
31,575 $ 30,021 
Collateral posted
$ 
20,262 $ 20,758 
Additional collateral or termination payments:
One-notch downgrade
$ 
315 $ 
271 
Two-notch downgrade
$ 
1,200 $ 
1,584 
Hedge Accounting 
The firm applies hedge accounting for (i) interest rate swaps 
used to manage the interest rate exposure of certain fixed-
rate unsecured long- and short-term borrowings, certain 
fixed-rate certificates of deposit and certain U.S. and non-
U.S. government securities classified as available-for-sale, (ii) 
foreign currency forward contracts used to manage the 
foreign exchange risk of certain securities classified as 
available-for-sale, (iii) foreign currency forward contracts 
and foreign currency-denominated debt used to manage 
foreign exchange risk on the firm’s net investment in certain 
non-U.S. operations and (iv) interest rate swaps used to 
manage the variability of the forecasted cash flows associated 
with certain floating-rate assets.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging instrument 
must be highly effective at reducing the risk from the 
exposure being hedged. Additionally, the firm must formally 
document the hedging relationship at inception and assess the 
hedging relationship at least on a quarterly basis to ensure the 
hedging instrument continues to be highly effective over the 
life of the hedging relationship. 
Fair Value Hedges 
The firm designates interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of 
certain fixed-rate unsecured long- and short-term debt and 
fixed-rate certificates of deposit and of certain U.S. and non-
U.S. government securities classified as available-for-sale. 
These interest rate swaps hedge changes in fair value 
attributable to the designated benchmark interest rate (e.g., 
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), Overnight Index 
Swap Rate or Sterling Overnight Index Average), effectively 
converting a substantial portion of these fixed-rate financial 
instruments into floating-rate financial instruments. 
The firm applies a statistical method that utilizes regression 
analysis when assessing the effectiveness of these hedging 
relationships in achieving offsetting changes in the fair values 
of the hedging instrument and the risk being hedged (i.e., 
interest rate risk). An interest rate swap is considered highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair value attributable to 
changes in the hedged risk when the regression analysis 
results in a coefficient of determination of 80% or greater 
and a slope between 80% and 125%. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
166
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
For qualifying interest rate fair value hedges, gains or losses 
on derivatives are included in interest income/expense. The 
change in fair value of the hedged items attributable to the 
risk being hedged is reported as an adjustment to its carrying 
value (hedging adjustment) and is also included in interest 
income/expense. When a derivative is no longer designated as 
a hedge, any remaining difference between the carrying value 
and par value of the hedged item is amortized in interest 
income/expense over the remaining life of the hedged item 
using the effective interest method. See Note 23 for further 
information about interest income and interest expense. 
The table below presents the gains/(losses) from interest rate 
derivatives accounted for as hedges and the related hedged 
items. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Investments
Interest rate hedges
$ 
63 $ 
(109) $ 
366 
Hedged investments
 
(80)  
111  
(350) 
Gains/(losses)
$ 
(17) $ 
2 $ 
16 
Borrowings and deposits
Interest rate hedges
$ 
(581) $ 3,859 $ (22,183) 
Hedged borrowings and deposits
 
181  
(4,344)  21,662 
Gains/(losses)
$ 
(400) $ 
(485) $ 
(521) 
The table below presents the carrying value of investments, 
deposits and unsecured borrowings that are designated in an 
interest rate hedging relationship and the related cumulative 
hedging adjustment (increase/(decrease)) from current and 
prior hedging relationships included in such carrying values. 
$ in millions
Carrying
 Value
Cumulative
 Hedging
 Adjustment
As of December 2024
Assets
Investments
$ 
34,755 $ 
(279) 
Liabilities
Deposits
$ 
1,840 $ 
(52) 
Unsecured short-term borrowings
$ 
14,720 $ 
(113) 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
$ 130,161 $ 
(10,757) 
As of December 2023
Assets
Investments
$ 
16,523 $ 
(104) 
Liabilities
Deposits
$ 
3,435 $ 
(123) 
Unsecured short-term borrowings
$ 
14,449 $ 
(94) 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
$ 134,992 $ 
(10,810) 
In the table above: 
• Cumulative hedging adjustment included $(5.81) billion as 
of December 2024 and $(5.63) billion as of December 2023 
of hedging adjustments from prior hedging relationships 
that were de-designated and substantially all were related 
to unsecured long-term borrowings. 
• The amortized cost of investments was $35.29 billion as of 
December 2024 and $17.33 billion as of December 2023.
In addition, cumulative hedging adjustments for items no 
longer designated in a hedging relationship were not material 
as of both December 2024 and December 2023. 
The firm designates certain foreign currency forward 
contracts as fair value hedges of the foreign exchange risk of 
non-U.S. government securities classified as available-for-
sale. See Note 8 for information about the amortized cost and 
fair value of such securities. The effectiveness of such hedges 
is assessed based on changes in spot rates. The gains/(losses) 
on the hedges (relating to both spot and forward points) and 
the foreign exchange gains/(losses) on the related available-
for-sale securities are included in market making. The net 
gains/(losses) on hedges and the related hedged available-for-
sale securities were not material for 2024, were $(2) million 
(reflecting a loss of $127 million related to hedges and a gain 
of $125 million on the related hedged available-for-sale 
securities) for 2023 and were $(30) million (reflecting a gain 
of $266 million related to hedges and a loss of $296 million 
on the related hedged available-for-sale securities) for 2022.
Net Investment Hedges 
The firm seeks to reduce the impact of fluctuations in foreign 
exchange rates on its net investments in certain non-U.S. 
operations through the use of foreign currency forward 
contracts and foreign currency-denominated debt. For 
foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges, the 
effectiveness of the hedge is assessed based on the overall 
changes in the fair value of the forward contracts (i.e., based 
on changes in forward rates). For foreign currency-
denominated debt designated as a hedge, the effectiveness of 
the hedge is assessed based on changes in spot rates. For 
qualifying net investment hedges, all gains or losses on the 
hedging instruments are included in currency translation. 
The table below presents the gains/(losses) from net 
investment hedging. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Hedges:
Foreign currency forward contracts
$ 1,064 $ (276) $ 1,713 
Foreign currency-denominated debt
$ 1,633 $ (550) $ (269) 
Gains or losses on individual net investments in non-U.S. 
operations 
are 
reclassified 
from 
accumulated 
other 
comprehensive income/(loss) to earnings when such net 
investments are sold or substantially liquidated. The gross 
and 
net 
gains/(losses) 
reclassified 
to 
earnings 
from 
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were not 
material for 2024, were $(49)  million (reflecting a gain of 
$90 million related to hedges and a loss of $139 million on the 
related net investments in non-U.S. operations) for 2023 and 
were not material for 2022. 
The firm had designated $22.10 billion as of December 2024 
and $27.52 billion as of December 2023 of foreign currency-
denominated debt, included in unsecured long- and short-
term borrowings, as hedges of net investments in non-U.S. 
subsidiaries. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
167
Cash Flow Hedges 
During the fourth quarter of 2024, the firm designated certain 
interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. These interest rate 
swaps hedge the firm’s exposure to the variability of the 
forecasted cash flows due to changes in the contractually 
specified interest rates associated with certain floating-rate 
assets. 
The firm applies a statistical method that utilizes regression 
analysis when assessing hedge effectiveness. A cash flow 
hedge is considered highly effective in offsetting the 
variability of the forecasted cash flows attributable to the 
hedged risk when the regression analysis results in a 
coefficient of determination of 80% or greater and a slope 
between 80% and 125%. 
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the gains or losses on 
derivatives are included in “Cash flow hedges” within the 
consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Such gains 
or losses are reclassified to interest income/expense within the 
consolidated statements of earnings in the same period that 
the forecasted hedged cash flows impact earnings. 
The gains/(losses) included within other comprehensive 
income/(loss) and the gains/(losses) reclassified to earnings 
from accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) related 
to cash flow hedges were not material for 2024 and are not 
expected to be material for 2025. The maximum length of 
time over which the forecasted cash flows are hedged is 
approximately one year.
Note 8. 
Investments 
Investments includes debt securities classified as available-
for-sale and held-to-maturity that are generally held in 
connection with the firm’s asset-liability management 
activities. In addition, investments includes equity securities 
and debt instruments that are accounted for at fair value and 
equity securities that are accounted for under the equity 
method that are generally held by the firm in connection with 
its long-term investing activities. 
The table below presents information about investments. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Available-for-sale securities, at fair value
$ 
79,458 $ 
49,141 
Held-to-maturity securities
 
78,713  
70,310 
Equity securities, at fair value
 
13,832  
13,747 
Debt instruments, at fair value
 
11,452  
12,879 
Equity-method investments
 
1,059  
762 
Total other investments
 
26,343  
27,388 
Total investments
$ 184,514 $ 146,839 
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2024, as the balances have 
increased 
during 
the 
year, 
investments 
are 
further 
disaggregated between available-for-sale securities, held-to-
maturity securities and other investments in the consolidated 
balance sheets and the related cash flows are disaggregated in 
the consolidated statements of cash flows. Previously, the 
disaggregation of investments was provided in this footnote. 
Prior period disclosures have been conformed to the current 
presentation. 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of investments, and 
Note 5 for information about investments within the fair 
value hierarchy.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
168
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Available-for-Sale Securities, at Fair Value 
Available-for-sale securities are accounted for at fair value, 
and the related unrealized fair value gains and losses are 
included in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 
unless designated in a fair value hedging relationship. See 
Note 7 for information about available-for-sale securities 
that are designated in a hedging relationship. 
The table below presents information about available-for-
sale securities by type and tenor. 
$ in millions
Amortized
 Cost
Fair
 Value
Weighted 
Average 
Yield
As of December 2024
 
 
Less than 1 year
$ 21,176 $ 21,011 
 2.62% 
1 year to 5 years
 
48,564  47,931 
 3.64% 
5 years to 10 years
 
6,620  
6,468 
 3.93% 
Total U.S. government obligations
 
76,360  75,410 
 3.38% 
1 year to 5 years
 
4,224  
3,893 
 1.73% 
5 years to 10 years
 
193  
155 
 0.72% 
Total non-U.S. government obligations
 
4,417  
4,048 
 1.69% 
Total available-for-sale securities
$ 80,777 $ 79,458 
 3.29% 
As of December 2023
 
 
Less than 1 year
$ 20,027 $ 19,687 
 0.45% 
1 year to 5 years
 
27,592  26,500 
 1.83% 
5 years to 10 years
 
586  
544 
 2.05% 
Total U.S. government obligations
 
48,205  46,731 
 1.25% 
Less than 1 year
 
11  
11 
 0.01% 
1 year to 5 years
 
1,635  
1,420 
 0.10% 
5 years to 10 years
 
1,150  
979 
 0.84% 
Total non-U.S. government obligations
 
2,796  
2,410 
 0.40% 
Total available-for-sale securities
$ 51,001 $ 49,141 
 1.21% 
In the table above: 
• The weighted average yield is presented on a pre-tax basis 
and computed using the effective interest rate of each 
security at the end of the period, weighted based on the fair 
value of each security. The effective interest rate considers 
the contractual coupon, the amortization of premiums and 
accretion of discounts, and excludes the effect of related 
hedges. 
• As of December 2024, the gross unrealized gains included 
in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were 
not material and the gross unrealized losses included in 
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were 
$1.38  billion. Of such losses, $983 million related to 
securities (fair value of $21.10 billion, primarily consisting 
of U.S. government obligations) that were in a continuous 
unrealized loss position for 12 months or longer and $399 
million related to securities (fair value of $32.71 billion, 
substantially all consisting of U.S. government obligations) 
that were in a continuous unrealized loss position for less 
than 12 months.
As of December 2023, the gross unrealized gains included 
in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were 
not material and the gross unrealized losses included in 
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were 
$1.89  billion, and primarily related to U.S. government 
obligations in a continuous unrealized loss position for 12 
months or longer. 
Net unrealized gains included in other comprehensive 
income/(loss) were $541 million ($401 million, net of tax) 
for 2024 and $1.65 billion ($1.25 billion, net of tax) for 
2023. 
• Substantially all available-for-sale securities were classified 
in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 
• If the fair value of available-for-sale securities is less than 
amortized cost, such securities are considered impaired. If 
the firm has the intent to sell the debt security, or if it is 
more likely than not that the firm will be required to sell 
the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost, the 
difference between the amortized cost (net of allowance, if 
any) and the fair value of the securities is recognized as an 
impairment loss in earnings. The firm did not record any 
such impairment losses during either 2024 or 2023. 
Impaired available-for-sale debt securities that the firm has 
the intent and ability to hold are reviewed to determine if 
an allowance for credit losses should be recorded. The firm 
considers various factors in such determination, including 
market conditions, changes in issuer credit ratings and 
severity of the unrealized losses. The firm did not record 
any provision for credit losses on such securities during 
either 2024 or 2023.
The gross realized gains and gross realized losses relating to 
the sales of available-for-sale securities were not material for 
each of 2024, 2023 and 2022. The specific identification 
method is used to determine realized gains on available-for-
sale securities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
169
Held-to-Maturity Securities 
Held-to-maturity securities are accounted for at amortized 
cost. 
The table below presents information about held-to-maturity 
securities by type and tenor. 
$ in millions
Amortized
Cost
Fair
Value
Weighted 
Average 
Yield
As of December 2024
 
 
Less than 1 year
$ 
15,449 $ 15,409 
 3.46% 
1 year to 5 years
 
42,420  
41,939 
 3.66% 
Total government obligations
 
57,869  
57,348 
 3.61% 
Greater than 10 years
 
20,637  
20,482 
 5.42% 
Total U.S. agency obligations
 
20,637  
20,482 
 5.42% 
1 year to 5 years
 
2  
2 
 7.50% 
Greater than 10 years
 
205  
206 
 5.25% 
Total securities backed by real estate
 
207  
208 
 5.29% 
Total held-to-maturity securities
$ 
78,713 $ 78,038 
 4.09% 
As of December 2023
 
 
Less than 1 year
$ 
13,475 $ 13,382 
 2.90% 
1 year to 5 years
 
54,789  
54,352 
 3.58% 
5 years to 10 years
 
1,848  
1,861 
 3.94% 
Total government obligations
 
70,112  
69,595 
 3.46% 
1 year to 5 years
 
3  
2 
 7.92% 
Greater than 10 years
 
195  
195 
 5.98% 
Total securities backed by real estate
 
198  
197 
 6.02% 
Total held-to-maturity securities
$ 
70,310 $ 69,792 
 3.47% 
In the table above: 
• Substantially all of the government obligations consist of 
U.S. government obligations.
• U.S. agency obligations consist of U.S. agency issued 
mortgage-backed securities.
• Substantially all of the securities backed by real estate 
consist of securities backed by residential real estate. 
• As these securities are not accounted for at fair value, they 
are not included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy in Notes 
4 and 5. Had these securities been included in the firm’s fair 
value hierarchy, government obligations would have been 
classified in level 1, U.S. agency obligations would have 
been classified in level 2 and securities backed by real estate 
would have been primarily classified in level 2 of the fair 
value hierarchy. 
• The weighted average yield is presented on a pre-tax basis 
and computed using the effective interest rate of each 
security at the end of the period, weighted based on the 
amortized cost of each security. The effective interest rate 
considers the contractual coupon and the amortization of 
premiums and accretion of discounts. 
• The gross unrealized gains were $121 million as of 
December 2024 and $383 million as of December 2023. The 
gross unrealized losses were $796 million as of December 
2024 and $901 million as of December 2023.
• Held-to-maturity securities are reviewed to determine if an 
allowance for credit losses should be recorded in the 
consolidated statements of earnings. The firm considers 
various factors in such determination, including market 
conditions, changes in issuer credit ratings, historical credit 
losses and sovereign guarantees. Provision for credit losses 
on such securities was not material during either 2024 or 
2023. 
Equity Securities and Debt Instruments, at Fair Value 
Equity securities and debt instruments, at fair value are 
accounted for at fair value either under the fair value option 
or in accordance with other U.S. GAAP, and the related fair 
value gains and losses are recognized in the consolidated 
statements of earnings. 
Equity Securities, at Fair Value. Equity securities, at fair 
value consists of the firm’s public and private equity 
investments in corporate and real estate entities. 
The table below presents information about equity securities, 
at fair value. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Equity securities, at fair value
$ 
13,832 $ 
13,747 
Equity Type
Public equity
 6% 
 9% 
Private equity
 94% 
 91% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
Asset Class
Corporate
 75% 
 73% 
Real estate
 25% 
 27% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above: 
• Equity securities, at fair value included investments 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option 
where the firm would otherwise apply the equity method of 
accounting of $5.04 billion as of December 2024 and $5.18 
billion as of December 2023. Gains/(losses) recognized as a 
result of changes in the fair value of equity securities for 
which the fair value option was elected were $(172) million 
for 2024 and $(638) million for 2023. These gains/(losses) 
are included in other principal transactions. 
• Equity securities, at fair value includes investments in 
private equity, real estate and hedge funds that are 
measured at NAV. 
• Equity securities subject to contractual sale restrictions 
were not material as of both December 2024 and December 
2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
170
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Debt Instruments, at Fair Value. Debt instruments, at fair 
value primarily includes mezzanine, senior and distressed 
debt. 
The 
table 
below 
presents 
information 
about 
debt 
instruments, at fair value. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate debt securities
$ 
7,276 $ 
8,992 
Securities backed by real estate
 
569  
689 
Money market instruments
 
1,780  
1,051 
Other
 
1,827  
2,147 
Total
$ 
11,452 $ 12,879 
In the table above, money market instruments primarily 
consist of time deposits and other primarily includes 
investments in credit funds that are measured at NAV. 
Investments in Funds at Net Asset Value Per Share. 
Equity securities and debt instruments, at fair value include 
investments in funds that are measured at NAV of the 
investment fund. The firm uses NAV to measure the fair 
value of fund investments when (i) the fund investment does 
not have a readily determinable fair value and (ii) the NAV of 
the investment fund is calculated in a manner consistent with 
the 
measurement 
principles 
of 
investment 
company 
accounting, including measurement of the investments at fair 
value. 
Substantially all of the firm’s investments in funds at NAV 
consist of investments in firm-sponsored private equity, 
credit, real estate and hedge funds where the firm co-invests 
with third-party investors.
Private equity funds primarily invest in a broad range of 
industries 
worldwide, 
including 
leveraged 
buyouts, 
recapitalizations, 
growth 
investments 
and 
distressed 
investments. Credit funds generally invest in loans and other 
fixed income instruments and are focused on providing 
private high-yield capital for leveraged and management 
buyout 
transactions, 
recapitalizations, 
financings, 
refinancings, acquisitions and restructurings for private 
equity firms, private family companies and corporate issuers. 
Real estate funds invest globally, primarily in real estate 
companies, loan portfolios, debt recapitalizations and 
property. Substantially all private equity, credit and real 
estate funds are closed-end funds in which the firm’s 
investments are generally not eligible for redemption. 
Distributions will be received from these funds as the 
underlying assets are liquidated or distributed, the timing of 
which is uncertain. 
The firm also invests in hedge funds, primarily multi-
disciplinary hedge funds that employ a fundamental bottom-
up investment approach across various asset classes and 
strategies. The firm’s investments in hedge funds primarily 
include interests where the underlying assets are illiquid in 
nature, and proceeds from redemptions will not be received 
until the underlying assets are liquidated or distributed, the 
timing of which is uncertain. 
The table below presents the fair value of investments in 
funds at NAV and the related unfunded commitments. 
$ in millions
Fair Value of  
Investments
Unfunded  
Commitments
As of December 2024
 
 
Private equity funds
$ 
881 $ 
432 
Credit funds
 
1,281  
364 
Hedge funds
 
31  
– 
Real estate funds
 
354  
159 
Total
$ 
2,547 $ 
955 
As of December 2023
 
 
Private equity funds
$ 
875 $ 
484 
Credit funds
 
1,733  
248 
Hedge funds
 
46  
– 
Real estate funds
 
346  
65 
Total
$ 
3,000 $ 
797 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
171
Note 9. 
Loans 
Loans includes (i) loans held for investment that are 
accounted for at amortized cost net of allowance for loan 
losses or at fair value under the fair value option and (ii) 
loans held for sale that are accounted for at the lower of cost 
or fair value. Interest on loans is recognized over the life of 
the loan and is recorded on an accrual basis. 
The table below presents information about loans. 
$ in millions
Amortized
Cost
Fair  
Value
Held For 
Sale
Total 
As of December 2024
 
 
 
 
Loan Type
 
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
28,689 $ 
467 $ 
816 $ 29,972 
Commercial real estate
 
28,899  
424  
466  
29,789 
Residential real estate
 
22,243  
3,726  
–  
25,969 
Securities-based
 
16,477  
–  
–  
16,477 
Other collateralized
 
74,008  
783  
316  
75,107 
Consumer:
 
 
 
Installment
 
–  
–  
70  
70 
Credit cards
 
19,615  
–  
1,788  
21,403 
Other
 
1,950  
60  
69  
2,079 
Total loans, gross
 
191,881  
5,460  
3,525  200,866 
Allowance for loan losses
 
(4,666)  
–  
–  
(4,666) 
Total loans
$ 187,215 $ 5,460 $ 
3,525 $ 196,200 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
 
Loan Type
 
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
33,866 $ 
759 $ 
1,249 $ 35,874 
Commercial real estate
 
25,025  
563  
440  
26,028 
Residential real estate
 
21,243  
4,145  
–  
25,388 
Securities-based
 
14,621  
–  
–  
14,621 
Other collateralized
 
61,105  
911  
209  
62,225 
Consumer:
 
 
 
Installment
 
250  
–  
3,048  
3,298 
Credit cards
 
17,432  
–  
1,929  
19,361 
Other
 
1,333  
128  
152  
1,613 
Total loans, gross
 
174,875  
6,506  
7,027  188,408 
Allowance for loan losses
 
(5,050)  
–  
–  
(5,050) 
Total loans
$ 169,825 $ 6,506 $ 
7,027 $ 183,358 
In the table above:
• Loans held for investment that are accounted for at 
amortized cost include net deferred fees and costs, and 
unamortized premiums and discounts, which are amortized 
over the life of the loan. These amounts were less than 1% 
of loans accounted for at amortized cost as of both 
December 2024 and December 2023. 
• Substantially all loans had floating interest rates as of both 
December 2024 and December 2023.
• During 2024, the firm sold the seller financing loan 
portfolio (included in installment loans). The net carrying 
value of such loans at the time of the sale was not material. 
• During 2023, the firm sold $3.24 billion of the Marcus loan 
portfolio (included in installment loans). 
• During 2023, the firm sold approximately $4.0  billion of 
the GreenSky loan portfolio (included in installment loans) 
and during 2024, sold the remaining GreenSky loan 
portfolio of $3.69 billion.
• During 
2023, 
the 
firm 
transferred 
approximately 
$2.0 billion of the GM co-branded credit card portfolio to 
held for sale. During 2024, we entered into an agreement to 
transition the GM credit card program to another issuer. 
The transition is expected to be completed in the third 
quarter of 2025.
• During 2023, the firm purchased a portfolio of 
approximately $15.0  billion of private equity capital call 
credit facilities (including approximately $9.0  billion of 
funded loans) from the FDIC’s auction of Signature Bank’s 
loans. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
172
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The following is a description of the loan types in the table 
above: 
• Corporate. Corporate loans includes term loans, revolving 
lines of credit, letter of credit facilities and bridge loans, 
and are principally used for operating and general 
corporate purposes, or in connection with acquisitions. 
Corporate loans are secured (typically by a senior lien on 
the assets of the borrower) or unsecured, depending on the 
loan purpose, the risk profile of the borrower and other 
factors. 
• Commercial Real Estate. Commercial real estate loans 
includes originated loans that are directly or indirectly 
secured by hotels, retail stores, multifamily housing 
complexes and commercial and industrial properties. 
Commercial real estate loans also includes loans extended 
to clients who warehouse assets that are directly or 
indirectly backed by commercial real estate. In addition, 
commercial real estate includes loans purchased by the 
firm. 
• Residential Real Estate. Residential real estate loans 
primarily includes loans extended to wealth management 
clients and to clients who warehouse assets that are directly 
or indirectly secured by residential real estate. In addition, 
residential real estate includes loans purchased by the firm.
• Securities-Based. Securities-based loans includes loans 
that are secured by stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and 
exchange-traded funds. These loans are primarily extended 
to the firm’s wealth management clients and used for 
purposes other than purchasing, carrying or trading margin 
stocks. Securities-based loans require borrowers to post 
additional collateral on a daily basis (daily margin 
requirement) based on changes in the underlying 
collateral’s fair value.
• Other Collateralized. Other collateralized loans includes 
loans that are backed by specific collateral (other than 
securities-based loans where there is a daily margin 
requirement and real estate loans). Such loans are extended 
to clients who warehouse assets that are directly or 
indirectly secured by corporate loans, consumer loans and 
other assets. Other collateralized loans also includes loans 
to investment funds (managed by third parties) that are 
collateralized by capital commitments of the funds’ 
investors or assets held by the fund, as well as other 
secured loans extended to the firm’s wealth management 
and corporate clients. 
• Installment. Installment loans are unsecured loans that 
were originated by the firm. 
• Credit Cards. Credit card loans are loans made pursuant 
to revolving lines of credit issued to consumers by the firm. 
• Other. Other loans primarily includes unsecured loans 
extended to wealth management clients and unsecured 
consumer loans purchased by the firm. 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of loans, and Note 5 
for information about loans within the fair value hierarchy.
Credit Quality 
Risk Assessment. The firm’s risk assessment process 
includes evaluating the credit quality of its loans by Risk. For 
corporate loans and a majority of securities-based, real 
estate, other collateralized and other loans, the firm performs 
credit analyses which incorporate initial and ongoing 
evaluations of the capacity and willingness of a borrower to 
meet its financial obligations. These credit evaluations are 
performed on an annual basis or more frequently if deemed 
necessary as a result of events or changes in circumstances. 
The firm determines an internal credit rating for the 
borrower by considering the results of the credit evaluations 
and assumptions with respect to the nature of and outlook 
for the borrower’s industry and the economic environment. 
For 
collateralized 
loans, 
the 
firm 
also 
takes 
into 
consideration collateral received or other credit support 
arrangements when determining an internal credit rating. For 
consumer loans and for loans that are not assigned an 
internal credit rating, including U.S. residential mortgage 
loans extended to wealth management clients, the firm 
reviews certain key metrics, including, but not limited to, the 
Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) credit scores, loan to value 
ratios, delinquency status, collateral value and other risk 
factors. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
173
The table below presents gross loans by an internally 
determined public rating agency equivalent or other credit 
metrics and the concentration of secured and unsecured 
loans. 
$ in millions
Investment-
Grade
Non-Investment- 
Grade
Other Metrics/
Unrated
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Accounting Method
 
 
 
Amortized cost
$ 113,986 $ 
45,595 $ 
32,300 $ 191,881 
Fair value
 
505  
856  
4,099  
5,460 
Held for sale
 
869  
745  
1,911  
3,525 
Total
$ 115,360 $ 
47,196 $ 
38,310 $ 200,866 
Loan Type
 
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
8,601 $ 
21,370 $ 
1 $ 29,972 
Real estate:
 
 
 
Commercial
 
18,175  
11,514  
100  
29,789 
Residential
 
10,227  
3,375  
12,367  
25,969 
Securities-based
 
12,662  
320  
3,495  
16,477 
Other collateralized
 
63,896  
10,442  
769  
75,107 
Consumer:
 
 
 
Installment
 
–  
–  
70  
70 
Credit cards
 
–  
–  
21,403  
21,403 
Other
 
1,799  
175  
105  
2,079 
Total
$ 115,360 $ 
47,196 $ 
38,310 $ 200,866 
Secured
 93% 
 90% 
 43% 
 83% 
Unsecured
 7% 
 10% 
 57% 
 17% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
Accounting Method
 
 
 
Amortized cost
$ 91,324 $ 
54,200 $ 
29,351 $ 174,875 
Fair value
 
1,212  
1,213  
4,081  
6,506 
Held for sale
 
255  
1,628  
5,144  
7,027 
Total
$ 92,791 $ 
57,041 $ 
38,576 $ 188,408 
Loan Type
 
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
9,408 $ 
26,328 $ 
138 $ 35,874 
Real estate:
 
 
 
Commercial
 
12,097  
13,574  
357  
26,028 
Residential
 
10,771  
3,217  
11,400  
25,388 
Securities-based
 
10,991  
561  
3,069  
14,621 
Other collateralized
 
48,536  
13,207  
482  
62,225 
Consumer:
 
 
 
Installment
 
–  
–  
3,298  
3,298 
Credit cards
 
–  
–  
19,361  
19,361 
Other
 
988  
154  
471  
1,613 
Total
$ 92,791 $ 
57,041 $ 
38,576 $ 188,408 
Secured
 91% 
 92% 
 40% 
 81% 
Unsecured
 9% 
 8% 
 60% 
 19% 
Total
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
 100% 
In the table above: 
• Substantially all residential real estate loans included in the 
other metrics/unrated category consists of loans extended 
to wealth management clients. As of both December 2024 
and December 2023, substantially all of such loans had a 
loan-to-value ratio of less than 80% and were performing 
in accordance with the contractual terms. Additionally, as 
of both December 2024 and December 2023, the vast 
majority of such loans had a FICO credit score of greater 
than 740.
• The vast majority of securities-based loans included in the 
other metrics/unrated category had a loan-to-value ratio of 
less than 80% and were performing in accordance with the 
contractual terms as of both December 2024 and December 
2023. 
• For installment and credit card loans included in the other 
metrics/unrated category, the evaluation of credit quality 
incorporates the borrower’s FICO credit score. FICO credit 
scores are periodically refreshed by the firm to assess the 
updated creditworthiness of the borrower. See “Vintage” 
below for information about installment and credit card 
loans by FICO credit scores. 
The firm also assigns a regulatory risk rating to its loans 
based on the definitions provided by the U.S. federal bank 
regulatory agencies. Total loans included 93% of loans as of 
December 2024 and 92% of loans as of December 2023 that 
were rated pass/non-criticized.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
174
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Vintage. The tables below present gross loans accounted for 
at amortized cost (excluding installment and credit card 
loans) by an internally determined public rating agency 
equivalent or other credit metrics and origination year for 
term loans.
 
As of December 2024
$ in millions
Investment-
 Grade
Non-
Investment-
 Grade
 Other 
Metrics/
 Unrated
Total
2024
$ 
1,447 $ 
2,545 $ 
– $ 
3,992 
2023
 
1,522  
1,446  
–  
2,968 
2022
 
727  
2,084  
1  
2,812 
2021
 
215  
2,244  
–  
2,459 
2020
 
102  
1,287  
–  
1,389 
2019 or earlier
 
376  
1,910  
–  
2,286 
Revolving
 
4,001  
8,696  
–  
12,697 
Revolving converted to term
 
–  
86  
–  
86 
Corporate
 
8,390  
20,298  
1  
28,689 
2024
 
2,988  
1,669  
27  
4,684 
2023
 
1,079  
1,252  
–  
2,331 
2022
 
1,018  
1,664  
–  
2,682 
2021
 
624  
1,901  
–  
2,525 
2020
 
273  
766  
–  
1,039 
2019 or earlier
 
972  
738  
18  
1,728 
Revolving
 
10,355  
2,944  
5  
13,304 
Revolving converted to term
 
201  
405  
–  
606 
Commercial real estate
 
17,510  
11,339  
50  
28,899 
2024
 
713  
584  
1,746  
3,043 
2023
 
224  
9  
1,414  
1,647 
2022
 
87  
46  
2,537  
2,670 
2021
 
21  
122  
2,598  
2,741 
2020
 
–  
6  
41  
47 
2019 or earlier
 
–  
19  
306  
325 
Revolving
 
9,182  
2,588  
–  
11,770 
Residential real estate
 
10,227  
3,374  
8,642  
22,243 
2024
 
1,528  
78  
16  
1,622 
2023
 
35  
–  
–  
35 
2022
 
5  
–  
–  
5 
2019 or earlier
 
–  
22  
–  
22 
Revolving
 
11,094  
220  
3,479  
14,793 
Securities-based 
 
12,662  
320  
3,495  
16,477 
2024
 
5,033  
2,009  
151  
7,193 
2023
 
3,816  
1,279  
150  
5,245 
2022
 
910  
144  
42  
1,096 
2021
 
546  
739  
72  
1,357 
2020
 
854  
566  
26  
1,446 
2019 or earlier
 
196  
45  
25  
266 
Revolving
 
51,373  
5,211  
15  
56,599 
Revolving converted to term
 
710  
96  
–  
806 
Other collateralized 
 
63,438  
10,089  
481  
74,008 
2024
 
257  
73  
–  
330 
2023
 
113  
10  
–  
123 
2022
 
36  
6  
–  
42 
2021
 
16  
–  
16  
32 
2020
 
–  
2  
–  
2 
Revolving
 
1,337  
84  
–  
1,421 
Other
 
1,759  
175  
16  
1,950 
Total
$ 113,986 $ 
45,595 $ 
12,685 $ 172,266 
Percentage of total
 66% 
 27% 
 7% 
 100% 
 
As of December 2023
$ in millions
Investment-
 Grade
Non-
Investment-
 Grade
Other 
Metrics/
 Unrated
Total
2023
$ 
2,475 $ 
1,912 $ 
16 $ 
4,403 
2022
 
1,223  
3,284  
–  
4,507 
2021
 
848  
4,045  
–  
4,893 
2020
 
306  
2,098  
–  
2,404 
2019
 
45  
1,909  
–  
1,954 
2018 or earlier
 
371  
2,102  
–  
2,473 
Revolving
 
3,857  
9,355  
20  
13,232 
Corporate
 
9,125  
24,705  
36  
33,866 
2023
 
553  
1,547  
38  
2,138 
2022
 
1,251  
2,838  
–  
4,089 
2021
 
1,134  
2,661  
–  
3,795 
2020
 
271  
1,234  
–  
1,505 
2019
 
430  
631  
–  
1,061 
2018 or earlier
 
832  
744  
–  
1,576 
Revolving
 
7,129  
3,192  
309  
10,630 
Revolving converted to term
 
231  
–  
–  
231 
Commercial real estate
 
11,831  
12,847  
347  
25,025 
2023
 
619  
54  
1,627  
2,300 
2022
 
108  
41  
2,687  
2,836 
2021
 
22  
249  
2,724  
2,995 
2020
 
3  
23  
81  
107 
2019
 
6  
–  
89  
95 
2018 or earlier
 
–  
20  
254  
274 
Revolving
 
9,813  
2,823  
–  
12,636 
Residential real estate
 
10,571  
3,210  
7,462  
21,243 
2023
 
8  
–  
–  
8 
2022
 
5  
–  
–  
5 
2018 or earlier
 
–  
303  
–  
303 
Revolving
 
10,978  
258  
3,069  
14,305 
Securities-based 
 
10,991  
561  
3,069  
14,621 
2023
 
5,412  
2,767  
245  
8,424 
2022
 
1,940  
293  
69  
2,302 
2021
 
1,883  
845  
102  
2,830 
2020
 
1,256  
469  
32  
1,757 
2019
 
177  
74  
9  
260 
2018 or earlier
 
436  
66  
21  
523 
Revolving
 
35,605  
8,242  
1  
43,848 
Revolving converted to term
 
1,161  
–  
–  
1,161 
Other collateralized 
 
47,870  
12,756  
479  
61,105 
2023
 
60  
21  
–  
81 
2022
 
67  
9  
–  
76 
2021
 
6  
8  
51  
65 
2020
 
–  
3  
218  
221 
2019
 
–  
–  
4  
4 
2018 or earlier
 
–  
–  
3  
3 
Revolving
 
803  
80  
–  
883 
Other
 
936  
121  
276  
1,333 
Total
$ 
91,324 $ 
54,200 $ 
11,669 $ 157,193 
Percentage of total
 58% 
 35% 
 7% 
 100% 
 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
175
The table below presents gross installment loans accounted 
for at amortized cost by refreshed FICO credit scores and 
origination year and gross credit card loans by refreshed 
FICO credit scores. 
$ in millions
Greater than or
 equal to 660
Less than 
660
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Credit cards
$ 
13,090 $ 
6,525 $ 19,615 
Percentage
 67% 
 33% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
2023
$ 
79 $ 
10 $ 
89 
2022
 
132  
18  
150 
2021 or earlier
 
11  
–  
11 
Installment
 
222  
28  
250 
Credit cards
 
11,119  
6,313  
17,432 
Total
$ 
11,341 $ 
6,341 $ 17,682 
Percentage of total:
 
 
Installment
 89% 
 11% 
 100% 
Credit cards
 64% 
 36% 
 100% 
Total
 64% 
 36% 
 100% 
In the table above, credit card loans consist of revolving lines 
of credit. 
Credit Concentrations. The table below presents the 
concentration of gross loans by region. 
$ in millions
Carrying
 Value
Americas
EMEA
Asia
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 29,972 
 66% 
 26% 
 8% 
 100% 
Commercial real estate
 
29,789 
 78% 
 18% 
 4% 
 100% 
Residential real estate
 
25,969 
 94% 
 5% 
 1% 
 100% 
Securities-based
 
16,477 
 76% 
 24%  
– 
 100% 
Other collateralized
 
75,107 
 86% 
 12% 
 2% 
 100% 
Consumer:
 
 
 
 
Installment
 
70 
 100%  
–  
– 
 100% 
Credit cards
 
21,403 
 100%  
–  
– 
 100% 
Other
 
2,079 
 96% 
 4%  
– 
 100% 
Total
$ 200,866 
 83% 
 14% 
 3% 
 100% 
As of December 2023
  
 
 
Corporate
$ 35,874 
 63% 
 29% 
 8% 
 100% 
Commercial real estate
 
26,028 
 80% 
 17% 
 3% 
 100% 
Residential real estate
 
25,388 
 95% 
 4% 
 1% 
 100% 
Securities-based 
 
14,621 
 79% 
 20% 
 1% 
 100% 
Other collateralized 
 
62,225 
 89% 
 10% 
 1% 
 100% 
Consumer:
 
 
 
 
Installment
 
3,298 
 100%  
–  
– 
 100% 
Credit cards
 
19,361 
 100%  
–  
– 
 100% 
Other
 
1,613 
 97% 
 3%  
– 
 100% 
Total
$ 188,408 
 84% 
 13% 
 3% 
 100% 
In the table above: 
• The top five industry concentrations for corporate loans as 
of December 2024 were 24% for technology, media & 
telecommunications, 16% for diversified industrials, 14% 
for real estate, 9% for financial institutions and 9% for 
healthcare.  
• The top five industry concentrations for corporate loans as 
of December 2023 were 25% for technology, media & 
telecommunications, 17% for diversified industrials, 13% 
for real estate, 11% for consumer & retail and 9% for 
healthcare. 
Nonaccrual, Past Due and Modified Loans. Loans 
accounted for at amortized cost (other than credit card loans) 
are placed on nonaccrual status when it is probable that the 
firm will not collect all principal and interest due under the 
contractual terms, regardless of the delinquency status or if a 
loan is past due for 90 days or more, unless the loan is both 
well collateralized and in the process of collection. At that 
time, all accrued but uncollected interest is reversed against 
interest income and interest subsequently collected is 
recognized on a cash basis to the extent the loan balance is 
deemed collectible. Otherwise, all cash received is used to 
reduce the outstanding loan balance. A loan is considered 
past due when a principal or interest payment has not been 
made according to its contractual terms. Credit card loans 
are not placed on nonaccrual status and accrue interest until 
the loan is paid in full or is charged off. 
The table below presents information about past due loans. 
$ in millions
30-89 days
90 days
 or more
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
– $ 
15 $ 
15 
Commercial real estate
 
186  
286  
472 
Residential real estate
 
3  
18  
21 
Securities-based 
 
6  
–  
6 
Other collateralized 
 
–  
5  
5 
Consumer:
 
 
Credit cards
 
417  
456  
873 
Total
$ 
612 $ 
780 $ 
1,392 
Total divided by gross loans at amortized cost
 0.7% 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
Corporate
$ 
45 $ 
73 $ 
118 
Commercial real estate
 
137  
352  
489 
Residential real estate
 
12  
4  
16 
Securities-based 
 
2  
–  
2 
Other collateralized 
 
9  
7  
16 
Consumer:
 
 
Installment
 
6  
7  
13 
Credit cards
 
463  
486  
949 
Other
 
7  
11  
18 
Total
$ 
681 $ 
940 $ 
1,621 
Total divided by gross loans at amortized cost
 0.9% 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
176
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents information about nonaccrual 
loans. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate
$ 
1,977 $ 
1,779 
Commercial real estate
 
800  
1,466 
Residential real estate
 
104  
19 
Securities-based 
 
2  
– 
Other collateralized
 
757  
860 
Other
 
12  
17 
Total
$ 
3,652 $ 
4,141 
Total divided by gross loans at amortized cost
 1.9% 
 2.4% 
In the table above: 
• Nonaccrual loans included $322 million as of December 
2024 and $600 million as of December 2023 of loans that 
were 30 days or more past due. 
• Loans that were 90 days or more past due and still accruing 
were not material as of both December 2024 and December 
2023. 
• Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total 
nonaccrual loans was 127.8% as of December 2024 and 
122.0% as of December 2023. 
• Commercial real estate, residential real estate, securities-
based and other collateralized loans are collateral 
dependent loans and the repayment of such loans is 
generally expected to be provided by the operation or sale 
of the underlying collateral. The allowance for credit losses 
for such nonaccrual loans is determined by considering the 
fair value of the collateral less estimated cost to sell, if 
applicable. See Note 4 for further information about fair 
value measurements. 
The firm may modify the terms of a loan agreement for a 
borrower 
experiencing 
financial 
difficulty. 
Such 
modifications may include, among other things, forbearance 
of interest or principal, payment extensions or interest rate 
reductions. 
The table below presents the carrying value of loans, as of 
both December 2024 and December 2023, that were modified 
during either 2024 or 2023.
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Modified loans
$ 
1,208 $ 
846 
In the table above:
• Loan modifications during both 2024 and 2023 were 
primarily in the form of term extensions. These extensions 
increased the weighted average term by 19 months for 
loans modified during 2024 and by 16 months for loans 
modified during 2023. 
• Substantially all of the modified loans were related to 
corporate loans, commercial real estate loans and credit 
cards. Modified loans represented approximately 2% of 
corporate loans (at amortized cost), and approximately 1% 
of both commercial real estate loans (at amortized cost) 
and credit card loans (at amortized cost). 
• Lending commitments related to modified loans were 
$156 million as of December 2024 and were not material as 
of December 2023. 
• During 2024, loans that defaulted after being modified 
were not material. During 2023, the firm charged off 
approximately $100  million of loans that had defaulted 
after being modified. Substantially all of the remaining 
modified loans were performing in accordance with the 
modified contractual terms as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
177
Allowance for Credit Losses 
The firm’s allowance for credit losses consists of the 
allowance for losses on loans and lending commitments 
accounted for at amortized cost. Loans and lending 
commitments accounted for at fair value or accounted for at 
the lower of cost or fair value are not subject to an allowance 
for credit losses. 
To determine the allowance for credit losses, the firm 
classifies its loans and lending commitments accounted for at 
amortized cost into wholesale and consumer portfolios. 
These portfolios represent the level at which the firm has 
developed and documented its methodology to determine the 
allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses is 
measured on a collective basis for loans that exhibit similar 
risk characteristics using a modeled approach and on an 
asset-specific basis for loans that do not share similar risk 
characteristics. 
The allowance for credit losses takes into account the 
weighted average of a range of forecasts of future economic 
conditions over the expected life of the loans and lending 
commitments. The expected life of each loan or lending 
commitment is determined based on the contractual term 
adjusted for extension options or demand features, or is 
modeled in the case of revolving credit card loans. The 
forecasts include baseline, favorable and adverse economic 
scenarios over a three-year period. For loans with expected 
lives beyond three years, the model reverts to historical loss 
information based on a non-linear modeled approach. The 
forecasted economic scenarios consider a number of risk 
factors relevant to the wholesale and consumer portfolios 
described below. The firm applies judgment in weighing 
individual scenarios each quarter based on a variety of 
factors, including the firm’s internally derived economic 
outlook, 
market 
consensus, 
recent 
macroeconomic 
conditions and industry trends. 
The allowance for credit losses also includes qualitative 
components which allow management to reflect the uncertain 
nature 
of 
economic 
forecasting, 
capture 
uncertainty 
regarding model inputs, and account for model imprecision 
and concentration risk. The qualitative factors considered by 
management include, among others, changes and trends in 
loan 
portfolios, 
uncertainties 
associated 
with 
the 
macroeconomic 
and 
geopolitical 
environments, 
credit 
concentrations, changes in volume and severity of past due 
and criticized loans, idiosyncratic events and deterioration 
within an industry or region. 
Management’s estimate of credit losses entails judgment 
about the expected life of the loan and loan collectability at 
the reporting dates, and there are uncertainties inherent in 
those judgments. The allowance for credit losses is subject to 
a governance process that involves senior management within 
Risk and Controllers. Personnel within Risk are responsible 
for forecasting the economic variables that underlie the 
economic scenarios that are used in the modeling of expected 
credit losses. While management uses the best information 
available to determine this estimate, future adjustments to the 
allowance may be necessary based on, among other things, 
changes in the economic environment or variances between 
actual results and the original assumptions used. 
The table below presents gross loans and lending 
commitments accounted for at amortized cost by portfolio. 
As of December
2024
2023
$ in millions
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Loans
Lending
Commitments
Wholesale
Corporate
$ 28,689 $ 
156,562 
$ 33,866 $ 
141,976 
Commercial real estate
 
28,899  
4,969 
 
25,025  
3,379 
Residential real estate
 
22,243  
1,742 
 
21,243  
1,431 
Securities-based 
 
16,477  
1,542 
 
14,621  
691 
Other collateralized 
 
74,008  
33,136 
 
61,105  
23,020 
Other
 
1,950  
872 
 
1,333  
888 
Consumer
Installment
 
–  
– 
 
250  
1 
Credit cards
 
19,615  
63,781 
 
17,432  
56,479 
Total
$ 191,881 $ 
262,604 
$ 174,875 $ 
227,865 
In the table above, wholesale loans included $3.65 billion as 
of December 2024 and $4.14 billion as of December 2023 of 
nonaccrual loans for which the allowance for credit losses 
was measured on an asset-specific basis. The allowance for 
credit losses on these loans was $735 million as of December 
2024 and $778 million as of December 2023. These loans 
included $585 million as of December 2024 and $625 million 
as of December 2023 of loans which did not require a reserve 
as the loan was deemed to be recoverable.
See Note 18 for further information about lending 
commitments. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
178
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The following is a description of the methodology used to 
calculate the allowance for credit losses: 
Wholesale. The allowance for credit losses for wholesale 
loans and lending commitments that exhibit similar risk 
characteristics is measured using a modeled approach. These 
models determine the probability of default and loss given 
default based on various risk factors, including internal credit 
ratings, industry default and loss data, expected life, 
macroeconomic indicators, the borrower’s capacity to meet 
its financial obligations, the borrower’s country of risk and 
industry, loan seniority and collateral type. For lending 
commitments, 
the 
methodology 
also 
considers 
the 
probability of drawdowns or funding. In addition, for loans 
backed by real estate, risk factors include the loan-to-value 
ratio, debt service ratio and home price index. The most 
significant inputs to the forecast model for wholesale loans 
and lending commitments include unemployment rates, GDP, 
credit spreads, commercial and industrial delinquency rates, 
short- and long-term interest rates, and oil prices. 
The allowance for loan losses for wholesale loans that do not 
share similar risk characteristics, such as nonaccrual loans, is 
calculated using the present value of expected future cash 
flows discounted at the loan’s effective rate, the observable 
market price of the loan, or, in the case of collateral 
dependent loans, the fair value of the collateral less estimated 
costs to sell, if applicable. Wholesale loans are charged off 
against the allowance for loan losses when deemed to be 
uncollectible.
Consumer. The allowance for credit losses for consumer 
loans that exhibit similar risk characteristics is calculated 
using a modeled approach which classifies consumer loans 
into pools based on borrower-related and exposure-related 
characteristics that differentiate a pool’s risk characteristics 
from other pools. The factors considered in determining a 
pool are generally consistent with the risk characteristics used 
for internal credit risk measurement and management and 
include key metrics, such as FICO credit scores, delinquency 
status, loan vintage and macroeconomic indicators. The most 
significant inputs to the forecast model for consumer loans 
include unemployment rates and delinquency rates. The 
expected life of revolving credit card loans is determined by 
modeling expected future draws and the timing and amount 
of repayments allocated to the funded balance. The firm does 
not recognize an allowance for credit losses on credit card 
lending commitments as they are cancellable by the firm. 
Credit card loans are charged off when they are 180 days past 
due. Installment loans were charged off when they were 120 
days past due. 
Allowance for Credit Losses Rollforward 
The table below presents information about the allowance 
for credit losses. 
$ in millions
Wholesale Consumer 
Total 
Year Ended December 2024
Allowance for loan losses
Beginning balance
$ 
2,576 $ 
2,474 $ 
5,050 
Charge-offs
 
(169)  
(1,471)  
(1,640) 
Recoveries
 
121  
104  
225 
Net (charge-offs)/recoveries
 
(48)  
(1,367)  
(1,415) 
Provision
 
(292)  
1,540  
1,248 
Other
 
(137)  
(80)  
(217) 
Ending balance
$ 
2,099 $ 
2,567 $ 
4,666 
Allowance ratio
 1.2% 
 13.1% 
 2.4% 
Net charge-off ratio
 
– 
 7.6% 
 0.8% 
Allowance for losses on lending commitments
Beginning balance
$ 
620 $ 
– $ 
620 
Provision
 
56  
–  
56 
Other
 
(2)  
–  
(2) 
Ending balance
$ 
674 $ 
– $ 
674 
Year Ended December 2023
Allowance for loan losses
Beginning balance
$ 
2,562 $ 
2,981 $ 
5,543 
Charge-offs
 
(455)  
(1,246)  
(1,701) 
Recoveries
 
55  
98  
153 
Net (charge-offs)/recoveries
 
(400)  
(1,148)  
(1,548) 
Provision
 
540  
641  
1,181 
Other
 
(126)  
–  
(126) 
Ending balance
$ 
2,576 $ 
2,474 $ 
5,050 
Allowance ratio
 1.6% 
 14.0% 
 2.9% 
Net charge-off ratio
 0.3% 
 5.5% 
 0.9% 
Allowance for losses on lending commitments
Beginning balance
$ 
711 $ 
63 $ 
774 
Provision
 
(90)  
(63)  
(153) 
Other
 
(1)  
–  
(1) 
Ending balance
$ 
620 $ 
– $ 
620 
In the table above: 
• Other primarily represented the reduction to the allowance 
related to loans transferred to held for sale. 
• The allowance ratio is calculated by dividing the allowance 
for loan losses by gross loans accounted for at amortized 
cost. 
• The net charge-off ratio is calculated by dividing net 
(charge-offs)/recoveries by average gross loans accounted 
for at amortized cost. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
179
Forecast Model Inputs as of December 2024 
When modeling expected credit losses, the firm employs a 
weighted, multi-scenario forecast, which includes baseline, 
adverse and favorable economic scenarios. As of December 
2024, this multi-scenario forecast was weighted towards the 
baseline and adverse economic scenarios.
The table below presents the forecasted U.S. unemployment 
and U.S. GDP growth rates used in the baseline economic 
scenario of the forecast model. 
As of December 2024
U.S. unemployment rate
 
Forecast for the quarter ended:
 
June 2025
 4.4% 
December 2025
 4.4% 
June 2026
 4.3% 
Growth in U.S. GDP
 
Forecast for the year:
 
2025
 2.0% 
2026
 1.7% 
2027
 1.7% 
The adverse economic scenario of the forecast model reflects 
a global recession in the first quarter of 2025 through the first 
quarter of 2026, resulting in an economic contraction and 
rising unemployment rates. In this scenario, the U.S. 
unemployment rate peaks at approximately 7.4% during the 
first quarter of 2026 and the maximum decline in the 
quarterly U.S. GDP relative to the fourth quarter of 2024 is 
approximately 2.7%, which occurs during the fourth quarter 
of 2025.
In the table above: 
• U.S. unemployment rate represents the rate forecasted as of 
the respective quarter-end.
• Growth in U.S. GDP represents the year-over-year growth 
rate forecasted for the respective years. 
• While the U.S. unemployment and U.S. GDP growth rates 
are significant inputs to the forecast model, the model 
contemplates a variety of other inputs across a range of 
scenarios to provide a forecast of future economic 
conditions. Given the complex nature of the forecasting 
process, no single economic variable can be viewed in 
isolation and independently of other inputs. 
Allowance for Credit Losses Commentary 
Year Ended December 2024. The allowance for credit 
losses decreased by $330 million during 2024, primarily 
reflecting a reserve release relating to the wholesale portfolio 
due to improved macroeconomic environment, partially 
offset by growth in the credit card portfolio.
Charge-offs for 2024 for wholesale loans (principally related 
to term loans originated in 2022 and 2021) were primarily 
related to corporate loans and charge-offs for consumer loans 
were primarily related to credit cards.
Year Ended December 2023. The allowance for credit 
losses decreased by $647 million during 2023, reflecting a net 
release related to the GreenSky installment loan portfolio 
(including a reserve reduction of $637 million related to the 
partial sale and transfer of the portfolio to held for sale), a 
reserve reduction of $442 million associated with the sale of 
Marcus loans, a reserve reduction of $160 million related to 
the transfer of the GM co-branded credit card portfolio to 
held for sale, a reserve release in the consumer portfolio 
based on actual repayment experience and lower balances in 
corporate loans due to sales and paydowns, partially offset 
by asset-specific provisions and ratings downgrades in the 
wholesale portfolio and seasoning of the credit card 
portfolio.  
Charge-offs for 2023 for wholesale loans (principally related 
to term loans originated in 2021 and revolving loans) were 
primarily related to corporate loans and charge-offs for 
consumer loans were primarily related to credit cards.  
Estimated Fair Value 
The table below presents the estimated fair value of loans 
that are not accounted for at fair value and in what level of 
the fair value hierarchy they would have been classified if 
they had been included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy. 
 
Carrying 
Value
Estimated Fair Value
$ in millions
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
 
Amortized cost
$ 187,215 
$ 99,790 $ 89,540 $ 189,330 
Held for sale
$ 
3,525 
$ 2,928 $ 
600 $ 
3,528 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
 
Amortized cost
$ 169,825 
$ 88,485 $ 83,288 $ 171,773 
Held for sale
$ 
7,027 
$ 3,992 $ 3,038 $ 
7,030 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of loans, and Note 5 
for information about loans within the fair value hierarchy.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
180
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 10. 
Fair Value Option 
Other Financial Assets and Liabilities at Fair Value 
In addition to trading assets and liabilities, and certain 
investments and loans, the firm accounts for certain of its 
other financial assets and liabilities at fair value, substantially 
all under the fair value option. The primary reasons for 
electing the fair value option are to: 
• Reflect economic events in earnings on a timely basis; 
• Mitigate volatility in earnings from using different 
measurement attributes (e.g., transfers of financial assets 
accounted for as financings are recorded at fair value, 
whereas the related secured financing would be recorded 
on an accrual basis absent electing the fair value option); 
and 
• Address simplification and cost-benefit considerations 
(e.g., accounting for hybrid financial instruments at fair 
value in their entirety versus bifurcation of embedded 
derivatives and hedge accounting for debt hosts). 
Hybrid financial instruments are instruments that contain 
bifurcatable embedded derivatives and do not require 
settlement by physical delivery of nonfinancial assets (e.g., 
physical commodities). Unless the firm has elected to account 
for the entire hybrid financial instrument at fair value under 
the fair value option, the embedded derivative is bifurcated 
from the associated host contract, the derivative is accounted 
for at fair value and the host contract is accounted for at 
amortized cost, adjusted for the effective portion of any fair 
value hedges. 
Other financial assets and liabilities accounted for at fair 
value under the fair value option include: 
• Repurchase agreements and substantially all resale 
agreements; 
• Certain securities borrowed and loaned transactions; 
• Certain customer and other receivables and certain other 
assets and liabilities; 
• Certain time deposits (deposits with no stated maturity are 
not eligible for a fair value option election), including 
structured certificates of deposit, which are hybrid 
financial instruments; 
• Substantially all other secured financings, including 
structured financing arrangements and transfers of assets 
accounted for as financings; and 
• Certain unsecured short- and long-term borrowings, 
substantially all of which are hybrid financial instruments. 
See Note 4 for an overview of the firm’s fair value 
measurement policies, valuation techniques and significant 
inputs used to determine the fair value of other financial 
assets and liabilities, and Note 5 for information about other 
financial assets and liabilities within the fair value hierarchy.
Gains and Losses on Other Financial Assets and 
Liabilities Accounted for at Fair Value Under the Fair 
Value Option 
The table below presents the gains and losses recognized in 
earnings as a result of the election to apply the fair value 
option to certain financial assets and liabilities. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Unsecured short-term borrowings
$ (2,749) $ (4,341) $ 4,055 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
 
(3,295)  (4,937)  
6,506 
Other
 
(356)  
(513)  
1,072 
Total
$ (6,400) $ (9,791) $ 11,633 
In the table above: 
• Gains/(losses) were substantially all included in market 
making. 
• Gains/(losses) exclude contractual interest, which is 
included in interest income and interest expense, for all 
instruments other than hybrid financial instruments. See 
Note 23 for further information about interest income and 
interest expense. 
• Gains/(losses) included in unsecured short- and long-term 
borrowings were substantially all related to the embedded 
derivative component of hybrid financial instruments. 
These gains and losses would have been recognized under 
other U.S. GAAP even if the firm had not elected to 
account for the entire hybrid financial instrument at fair 
value. 
• Gains/(losses) included in other were primarily related to 
resale and repurchase agreements, deposits and other 
secured financings.
• Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value are 
frequently economically hedged with trading assets and 
liabilities. Accordingly, gains or losses on such other 
financial assets and liabilities can be partially offset by 
gains or losses on trading assets and liabilities. As a result, 
gains or losses on other financial assets and liabilities do 
not necessarily represent the overall impact on the firm’s 
results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
181
Gains/(losses) on trading assets and liabilities accounted for 
at fair value under the fair value option are included in 
market making. See Note 6 for further information about 
gains/(losses) from market making. See Note 8 for 
information about gains/(losses) on equity securities and 
Note 9 for information about gains/(losses) on loans which 
are accounted for at fair value under the fair value option.
Long-Term Debt Instruments 
The difference between the aggregate contractual principal 
amount and the related fair value of long-term other secured 
financings, for which the fair value option was elected was 
not material as of December 2024, and the aggregate 
contractual principal amount exceeded the fair value by $147 
million as of December 2023. 
The aggregate contractual principal amount of unsecured 
long-term borrowings, for which the fair value option was 
elected, exceeded the related fair value by $4.23 billion as of 
December 2024 and $3.37 billion as of December 2023. 
These debt instruments include both principal-protected and 
non-principal-protected long-term borrowings. 
Debt Valuation Adjustment 
The firm calculates the fair value of financial liabilities for 
which the fair value option is elected by discounting future 
cash flows at a rate which incorporates the firm’s credit 
spreads. 
The table below presents information about the net debt 
valuation adjustment (DVA) gains/(losses) on financial 
liabilities for which the fair value option was elected. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Pre-tax DVA
$ 
(351) $ (1,355) $ 1,882 
After-tax DVA
$ 
(263) $ (1,015) $ 1,403 
In the table above: 
• After-tax DVA is included in debt valuation adjustment in 
the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 
• The gains/(losses) reclassified to market making in the 
consolidated statements of earnings from accumulated 
other comprehensive income/(loss) upon extinguishment of 
such financial liabilities were not material for each of 2024, 
2023 and 2022.
Loans and Lending Commitments 
The table below presents the difference between the 
aggregate fair value and the aggregate contractual principal 
amount for loans (included in trading assets and loans in the 
consolidated balance sheets) for which the fair value option 
was elected. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Performing loans
 
 
Aggregate contractual principal in excess of fair value
$ 
965 $ 
1,893 
Loans on nonaccrual status and/or more than 90 days past due
Aggregate contractual principal in excess of fair value
$ 
2,402 $ 
2,305 
Aggregate fair value
$ 
1,454 $ 
1,508 
In the table above, the aggregate contractual principal 
amount of loans on nonaccrual status and/or more than 90 
days past due (which excludes loans carried at zero fair value 
and considered uncollectible) exceeds the related fair value 
primarily because the firm regularly purchases loans, such as 
distressed loans, at values significantly below the contractual 
principal amounts. 
The total contractual amount of unfunded lending 
commitments for which the fair value option was elected was 
$568 million as of December 2024 and $878  million as of 
December 2023, and the related fair value of these lending 
commitments was not material as of both December 2024 
and December 2023. See Note 18 for further information 
about lending commitments. 
Impact of Credit Spreads on Loans and Lending 
Commitments 
The estimated net loss attributable to changes in instrument-
specific credit spreads on loans and lending commitments for 
which the fair value option was elected was not material for 
2024, $125 million for 2023 and $281 million for 2022. The 
firm generally calculates the fair value of loans and lending 
commitments for which the fair value option is elected by 
discounting future cash flows at a rate which incorporates the 
instrument-specific credit spreads. For floating-rate loans and 
lending commitments, substantially all changes in fair value 
are attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit 
spreads, 
whereas 
for 
fixed-rate 
loans 
and 
lending 
commitments, changes in fair value are also attributable to 
changes in interest rates. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
182
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 11. 
Collateralized Agreements and Financings 
Collateralized agreements are resale agreements and 
securities borrowed. Collateralized financings are repurchase 
agreements, securities loaned and other secured financings. 
The firm enters into these transactions in order to, among 
other things, facilitate client activities, invest excess cash, 
acquire securities to cover short positions and finance certain 
firm activities. 
Collateralized agreements and financings with the same 
settlement date are presented on a net-by-counterparty basis 
when such transactions meet certain settlement criteria and 
are subject to netting agreements. Interest on collateralized 
agreements, which is included in interest income, and 
collateralized financings, which is included in interest 
expense, is recognized over the life of the transaction. See 
Note 23 for further information about interest income and 
interest expense. 
Resale and Repurchase Agreements 
A resale agreement is a transaction in which the firm 
purchases financial instruments from a seller, typically in 
exchange for cash, and simultaneously enters into an 
agreement to resell the same or substantially the same 
financial instruments to the seller at a stated price plus 
accrued interest at a future date. 
A repurchase agreement is a transaction in which the firm 
sells financial instruments to a buyer, typically in exchange 
for cash, and simultaneously enters into an agreement to 
repurchase the same or substantially the same financial 
instruments from the buyer at a stated price plus accrued 
interest at a future date. 
Even though repurchase and resale agreements (including 
“repos- and reverses-to-maturity”) involve the legal transfer 
of ownership of financial instruments, they are accounted for 
as financing arrangements because they require the financial 
instruments to be repurchased or resold before or at the 
maturity of the agreement. The financial instruments 
purchased or sold in resale and repurchase agreements 
typically include U.S. government and agency obligations, 
and investment-grade sovereign obligations. 
The firm receives financial instruments purchased under 
resale agreements and makes delivery of financial instruments 
sold under repurchase agreements. To mitigate credit 
exposure, the firm monitors the market value of these 
financial instruments on a daily basis, and delivers or obtains 
additional collateral due to changes in the market value of the 
financial instruments, as appropriate. For resale agreements, 
the firm typically requires collateral with a fair value 
approximately equal to the carrying value of the relevant 
assets in the consolidated balance sheets. 
Repurchase 
agreements 
and 
substantially 
all 
resale 
agreements are recorded at fair value under the fair value 
option. See Note 5 for further information about repurchase 
and resale agreements.
Securities Borrowed and Loaned Transactions 
In a securities borrowed transaction, the firm borrows 
securities from a counterparty in exchange for cash or 
securities. When the firm returns the securities, the 
counterparty returns the cash or securities. Interest is 
generally paid periodically over the life of the transaction. 
In a securities loaned transaction, the firm lends securities to 
a counterparty in exchange for cash or securities. When the 
counterparty returns the securities, the firm returns the cash 
or securities posted as collateral. Interest is generally paid 
periodically over the life of the transaction. 
In a transaction where the firm lends securities and receives 
securities that can be delivered or pledged as collateral, the 
firm recognizes the securities received within securities 
borrowed and the obligation to return those securities within 
securities loaned in the consolidated balance sheets.
The firm receives securities borrowed and makes delivery of 
securities loaned. To mitigate credit exposure, the firm 
monitors the market value of these securities on a daily basis, 
and delivers or obtains additional collateral due to changes in 
the market value of the securities, as appropriate. For 
securities borrowed transactions, the firm typically requires 
collateral with a fair value approximately equal to the 
carrying value of the securities borrowed transaction. 
Securities borrowed and loaned within FICC financing are 
recorded at fair value under the fair value option. See Note 5 
for further information about securities borrowed and loaned 
accounted for at fair value. 
Substantially all of the securities borrowed and loaned within 
Equities financing are recorded based on the amount of cash 
collateral advanced or received plus accrued interest. The 
firm also reviews such securities borrowed to determine if an 
allowance for credit losses should be recorded by taking into 
consideration the fair value of collateral received. As these 
agreements generally can be terminated on demand, they 
exhibit little, if any, sensitivity to changes in interest rates. 
Therefore, 
the 
carrying 
value 
of 
such 
agreements 
approximates fair value. As these agreements are not 
accounted for at fair value, they are not included in the firm’s 
fair value hierarchy in Notes 4 and 5. Had these agreements 
been included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy, they would 
have been classified in level 2 as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
183
Offsetting Arrangements 
The table below presents resale and repurchase agreements 
and securities borrowed and loaned transactions included in 
the consolidated balance sheets, as well as the amounts not 
offset in the consolidated balance sheets. 
 
Assets 
Liabilities 
$ in millions
Resale 
agreements 
Securities 
borrowed
Repurchase 
agreements
Securities 
loaned
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Included in the consolidated balance sheets 
Gross carrying value
$ 
313,924 $ 205,259 
$ 
408,242 $ 
66,674 
Counterparty netting
 
(133,862)  
(10,614)  
(133,862)  
(10,614) 
Total
 
180,062  
194,645 
 
274,380  
56,060 
Amounts not offset
 
(176,390)  (187,474)  
(270,150)  
(55,910) 
Total
$ 
3,672 $ 
7,171 
$ 
4,230 $ 
150 
As of December 2023
Included in the consolidated balance sheets 
Gross carrying value
$ 
315,112 $ 199,753 
$ 
341,194 $ 
60,816 
Counterparty netting
 
(91,307)  
(333)  
(91,307)  
(333) 
Total
 
223,805  
199,420 
 
249,887  
60,483 
Amounts not offset
 
(218,494)  (192,291)  
(246,634)  
(60,180) 
Total
$ 
5,311 $ 
7,129 
$ 
3,253 $ 
303 
In the table above: 
• Substantially all of the gross carrying values of these 
arrangements 
are 
subject 
to 
enforceable 
netting 
agreements.
• Where the firm has received or posted collateral under 
credit support agreements, but has not yet determined such 
agreements are enforceable, the related collateral has not 
been netted. 
• Amounts not offset includes counterparty netting that does 
not meet the criteria for netting under U.S. GAAP and the 
fair value of collateral received or posted subject to 
enforceable credit support agreements. 
• Resale agreements included in the consolidated balance 
sheets of $179.79  billion as of December 2024 and 
$223.54  billion as of December 2023 and all repurchase 
agreements included in the consolidated balance sheets are 
carried at fair value under the fair value option. See Note 5 
for further information about resale agreements and 
repurchase agreements accounted for at fair value. 
• Securities borrowed included in the consolidated balance 
sheets of $46.90  billion as of December 2024 and 
$44.93 billion as of December 2023, and securities loaned 
included 
in 
the 
consolidated 
balance 
sheets 
of 
$10.25 billion as of December 2024 and $8.93 billion as of 
December 2023 were at fair value under the fair value 
option. See Note 5 for further information about securities 
borrowed and securities loaned accounted for at fair value.
Gross Carrying Value of Repurchase Agreements and 
Securities Loaned 
The table below presents the gross carrying value of 
repurchase agreements and securities loaned by class of 
collateral pledged. 
$ in millions
Repurchase 
agreements
Securities 
loaned
As of December 2024
 
 
Money market instruments
$ 
61 $ 
– 
U.S. government and agency obligations
 
276,341  
– 
Non-U.S. government and agency obligations
 
95,812  
461 
Securities backed by commercial real estate
 
407  
– 
Securities backed by residential real estate
 
1,154  
– 
Corporate debt securities
 
11,521  
376 
State and municipal obligations
 
573  
– 
Other debt obligations
 
289  
– 
Equity securities
 
22,084  
65,837 
Total
$ 
408,242 $ 
66,674 
As of December 2023
 
 
Money market instruments
$ 
3 $ 
– 
U.S. government and agency obligations
 
228,718  
216 
Non-U.S. government and agency obligations
 
85,230  
376 
Securities backed by commercial real estate
 
135  
– 
Securities backed by residential real estate
 
641  
– 
Corporate debt securities
 
10,585  
230 
State and municipal obligations
 
57  
– 
Other debt obligations
 
144  
– 
Equity securities
 
15,681  
59,994 
Total
$ 
341,194 $ 
60,816 
The table below presents the gross carrying value of 
repurchase agreements and securities loaned by maturity. 
 
As of December 2024
$ in millions
Repurchase 
agreements
Securities 
loaned
No stated maturity and overnight
$ 
189,068 
$ 
40,189 
2 - 30 days
 
115,949 
 
1,638 
31 - 90 days
 
41,361 
 
1,634 
91 days - 1 year
 
38,967 
 
12,068 
Greater than 1 year
 
22,897 
 
11,145 
Total
$ 
408,242 
$ 
66,674 
In the table above: 
• Repurchase agreements and securities loaned that are 
repayable prior to maturity at the option of the firm are 
reflected at their contractual maturity dates. 
• Repurchase agreements and securities loaned that are 
redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are 
reflected at the earliest dates such options become 
exercisable. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
184
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Other Secured Financings 
In addition to repurchase agreements and securities loaned 
transactions, the firm funds certain assets through the use of 
other secured financings and pledges financial instruments 
and other assets as collateral in these transactions. These 
other secured financings include: 
• Liabilities of CIEs and consolidated VIEs; 
• Transfers of assets accounted for as financings rather than 
sales (e.g., pledged commodities, bank loans and mortgage 
whole loans); and 
• Other structured financing arrangements. 
Other 
secured 
financings 
included 
nonrecourse 
arrangements. Nonrecourse other secured financings were 
$3.74  billion as of December 2024 and $5.57  billion as of 
December 2023.
The firm has elected to apply the fair value option to 
substantially all other secured financings because the use of 
fair value eliminates non-economic volatility in earnings that 
would arise from using different measurement attributes. See 
Note 5 for further information about other secured 
financings that are accounted for at fair value. 
Other secured financings that are not recorded at fair value 
are recorded based on the amount of cash received plus 
accrued interest, which generally approximates fair value. As 
these financings are not accounted for at fair value, they are 
not included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy in Notes 4 and 
5. Had these financings been included in the firm’s fair value 
hierarchy, substantially all would have been classified in level 
3 as of both December 2024 and December 2023.
The table below presents information about other secured 
financings. 
$ in millions
U.S. 
Dollar
Non-U.S. 
Dollar
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Other secured financings
 
 
 
Short-term
$ 16,333 $ 4,582 $ 20,915 
Long-term
 
1,377  
5,858  
7,235 
Total other secured financings
$ 17,710 $ 10,440 $ 28,150 
Other secured financings collateralized by:
Financial instruments
$ 17,094 $ 8,644 $ 25,738 
Other assets
$ 
616 $ 1,796 $ 
2,412 
As of December 2023
 
Other secured financings
 
 
Short-term
$ 
3,385 $ 3,819 $ 
7,204 
Long-term
 
2,144  
3,846  
5,990 
Total other secured financings
$ 
5,529 $ 7,665 $ 13,194 
Other secured financings collateralized by:
Financial instruments
$ 
3,122 $ 6,755 $ 
9,877 
Other assets
$ 
2,407 $ 
910 $ 
3,317 
In the table above: 
• Short-term other secured financings includes financings 
maturing within one year of the financial statement date 
and financings that are redeemable within one year of the 
financial statement date at the option of the holder.
• Other secured financings included $27.99 billion as of 
December 2024 and $12.55 billion as of December 2023 of 
financings accounted for at fair value under the fair value 
option.
• Non-U.S. dollar-denominated short-term other secured 
financings had a weighted average interest rate of 0.47% as 
of December 2023. This rate includes the effect of hedging 
activities and excludes other secured financings held at fair 
value under the fair value option. As of December 2024, all 
of the non-U.S. dollar-denominated short-term other 
secured financings were held at fair value under the fair 
value option. 
• U.S. 
dollar-denominated 
long-term 
other 
secured 
financings had a weighted average interest rate of 7.16% as 
of December 2024 and 3.44% as of December 2023. These 
rates include the effect of hedging activities and excludes 
other secured financings held at fair value under the fair 
value option.  
• All U.S. dollar denominated short-term and non-U.S. dollar 
denominated long-term other secured financings were held 
at fair value under the fair value option.
• Total other secured financings included $2.50 billion as of 
December 2024 and $2.34  billion as of December 2023 
related to transfers of financial assets accounted for as 
financings rather than sales. Such financings were 
collateralized by financial assets, primarily included in 
trading assets, of $2.50  billion as of December 2024 and 
$2.36 billion as of December 2023. 
• Other secured financings collateralized by financial 
instruments included $24.39  billion as of December 2024 
and $8.38  billion as of December 2023 of other secured 
financings collateralized by trading assets, investments and 
loans, and included $1.35 billion as of December 2024 and 
$1.49  billion as of December 2023 of other secured 
financings collateralized by financial instruments received 
as collateral and repledged. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
185
The table below presents other secured financings by 
maturity. 
As of
$ in millions
December 2024
Other secured financings (short-term)
$ 
20,915 
Other secured financings (long-term):
 
2026
 
4,626 
2027
 
475 
2028
 
1,223 
2029
 
184 
2030 - thereafter
 
727 
Total other secured financings (long-term) 
 
7,235 
Total other secured financings
$ 
28,150 
In the table above: 
• Long-term other secured financings that are repayable 
prior to maturity at the option of the firm are reflected at 
their contractual maturity dates. 
• Long-term other secured financings that are redeemable 
prior to maturity at the option of the holder are reflected at 
the earliest dates such options become exercisable. 
Collateral Received and Pledged 
The firm receives cash and securities (e.g., U.S. government 
and agency obligations, other sovereign and corporate 
obligations, as well as equity securities) as collateral, 
primarily in connection with resale agreements, securities 
borrowed, derivative transactions and customer margin 
loans. The firm obtains cash and securities as collateral on an 
upfront or contingent basis for derivative instruments and 
collateralized agreements to reduce its credit exposure to 
individual counterparties. 
In many cases, the firm is permitted to deliver or repledge 
financial instruments received as collateral when entering 
into 
repurchase 
agreements 
and 
securities 
loaned 
transactions, primarily in connection with secured client 
financing activities. The firm is also permitted to deliver or 
repledge these financial instruments in connection with other 
secured financings, collateralized derivative transactions and 
firm or customer settlement requirements. 
The firm also pledges certain trading assets in connection 
with repurchase agreements, securities loaned transactions 
and other secured financings, and other assets (substantially 
all real estate and cash) in connection with other secured 
financings to counterparties who may or may not have the 
right to deliver or repledge them. 
The table below presents financial instruments at fair value 
received as collateral that were available to be delivered or 
repledged and were delivered or repledged. 
 
As of December 
$ in millions
2024
2023
Collateral available to be delivered or repledged
$ 1,038,740 $ 1,002,891 
Collateral that was delivered or repledged
$ 912,863 $ 
862,988 
The table below presents information about assets pledged. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Pledged to counterparties that had the right to deliver or repledge
Trading assets
$ 148,417 $ 
110,567 
Pledged to counterparties that did not have the right to deliver or repledge
Trading assets
$ 173,254 $ 
138,404 
Investments
$ 
8,712 $ 
22,165 
Loans
$ 
12,065 $ 
8,865 
Other assets
$ 
1,590 $ 
3,924 
The firm also segregates securities for regulatory and other 
purposes related to client activity. Such securities are 
segregated from trading assets and investments, as well as 
from securities received as collateral under resale agreements 
and securities borrowed transactions. Securities segregated by 
the firm were $64.21  billion as of December 2024 and 
$49.26 billion as of December 2023. 
Note 12. 
Other Assets 
The table below presents other assets by type. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Property, leasehold improvements and equipment
$ 
8,024 $ 11,244 
Goodwill
 
5,853  
5,916 
Identifiable intangible assets
 
847  
1,177 
Operating lease right-of-use assets
 
1,967  
2,171 
Income tax-related assets
 
9,131  
8,157 
Miscellaneous receivables and other 
 
8,365  
7,925 
Total
$ 
34,187 $ 36,590 
Property, Leasehold Improvements and Equipment 
Property, leasehold improvements and equipment is net of 
accumulated depreciation and amortization of $13.64 billion 
as of both December 2024 and December 2023. Property, 
leasehold 
improvements 
and 
equipment 
included 
$6.57  billion as of December 2024 and $6.65  billion as of 
December 2023 that the firm uses in connection with its 
operations, and $52  million as of December 2024 and 
$124 million as of December 2023 of foreclosed real estate. 
The remainder is held by investment entities, including VIEs, 
consolidated by the firm. Substantially all property and 
equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the 
useful life of the asset. Leasehold improvements are 
amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the 
useful life of the improvement or the term of the lease. 
Capitalized costs of software developed or obtained for 
internal use are amortized on a straight-line basis over three 
years.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
186
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The firm tests property, leasehold improvements and 
equipment for impairment when events or changes in 
circumstances suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying 
value may not be fully recoverable. To the extent the carrying 
value of an asset or asset group exceeds the projected 
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and 
eventual disposal of the asset or asset group, the firm 
determines the asset or asset group is impaired and records 
an impairment equal to the difference between the estimated 
fair value and the carrying value of the asset or asset group. 
In addition, the firm will recognize an impairment prior to 
the sale of an asset or asset group if the carrying value of the 
asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. Any 
impairments recognized are included in depreciation and 
amortization. The firm had impairments of $228 million 
during 2024 and $314 million during 2022, substantially all 
related to commercial real estate included in CIEs within 
Asset & Wealth Management. During 2023, the firm had 
impairments of $1.46 billion related to commercial real estate 
included in CIEs within Asset & Wealth Management and 
$118 million related to capitalized software substantially all 
within Platform Solutions and Asset & Wealth Management. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the 
fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible 
assets, at the acquisition date. 
The table below presents the carrying value of goodwill by 
reporting unit. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Global Banking & Markets:
Investment banking
$ 
267 $ 
267 
FICC
 
269  
269 
Equities
 
2,647  
2,647 
Asset & Wealth Management:
Asset management
 
1,361  
1,410 
Wealth management
 
1,309  
1,309 
Platform Solutions:
 
 
Transaction banking and other
 
–  
14 
Total
$ 
5,853 $ 
5,916 
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually in the fourth 
quarter or more frequently if events occur or circumstances 
change that indicate an impairment may exist. When 
assessing goodwill for impairment, first, a qualitative 
assessment can be made to determine whether it is more 
likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting 
unit is less than its carrying value. If the results of the 
qualitative assessment are not conclusive, a quantitative 
goodwill test is performed. Alternatively, a quantitative 
goodwill test can be performed without performing a 
qualitative assessment.
The quantitative goodwill test compares the estimated fair 
value of each reporting unit with its carrying value (including 
goodwill and identifiable intangible assets). If the reporting 
unit’s estimated fair value exceeds its carrying value, 
goodwill is not impaired. An impairment is recognized if the 
estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its 
carrying value and any such impairment is included in 
depreciation and amortization. 
When performing a quantitative goodwill test, the estimated 
fair value of each reporting unit is based on valuation 
techniques the firm believes market participants would use to 
value these reporting units. Estimated fair values are 
generally derived from utilizing a relative value technique, 
which applies observable price-to-earnings multiples or price-
to-book multiples of comparable competitors to the reporting 
units’ net earnings or net book value, or a discounted cash 
flow valuation approach, for reporting units with businesses 
in early stages of development. The carrying value of each 
reporting unit reflects an allocation of total shareholders’ 
equity and represents the estimated amount of total 
shareholders’ equity required to support the activities of the 
reporting unit under currently applicable regulatory capital 
requirements. 
During the third quarter of 2024, in connection with the 
planned sale of the firm’s seller financing loan portfolio, the 
firm performed a quantitative goodwill test and determined 
that the goodwill associated with Transaction banking and 
other was impaired, and accordingly, recorded a $14 million 
impairment. 
In the fourth quarter of 2024, the firm performed its annual 
assessment of goodwill for impairment, for each of its 
reporting units with goodwill, by performing a qualitative 
assessment. Multiple factors were assessed with respect to 
each of these reporting units to determine whether it was 
more likely than not that the estimated fair value of each of 
those reporting units was less than its carrying value. 
The firm considered the following factors in the qualitative 
annual assessment:
• Performance Indicators. During 2024, the firm’s net 
revenues, efficiency ratio (total operating expenses divided 
by total net revenues), diluted earnings per common share 
(EPS), return on average common shareholders’ equity and 
book value per common share all improved from 2023 and 
from 2022 (when a quantitative test was last performed). 
Within the reporting units with goodwill, there continued 
to be solid fundamentals underlying our businesses, where 
the firm continued to maintain industry leadership 
positions and execute on strategic goals.
• Macroeconomic 
Indicators. 
Despite 
broad 
macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns, the global 
economy continued to grow in 2024.
• Firm and Industry Events. There were no events, entity-
specific or otherwise, that would have had a significant 
negative impact on the valuation of the firm’s reporting 
units with goodwill.  
• Fair Value Indicators. Fair value indicators for both the 
firm and its peers have generally improved since the annual 
assessment performed in 2023 and from 2022 (when a 
quantitative test was last performed).
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
187
As a result of the annual assessment, the firm determined that 
it was more likely than not that the estimated fair value of 
each reporting unit with goodwill exceeded its respective 
carrying value. Therefore, the firm determined that goodwill 
for each reporting unit was not impaired and that a 
quantitative goodwill test was not required.
Identifiable Intangible Assets 
The table below presents identifiable intangible assets by 
type. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Customer lists
 
 
Gross carrying value
$ 
2,187 $ 
2,339 
Accumulated amortization
 
(1,358)  
(1,292) 
Net carrying value
 
829  
1,047 
Other
 
 
Gross carrying value
 
82  
866 
Accumulated amortization
 
(64)  
(736) 
Net carrying value
 
18  
130 
Total gross carrying value
 
2,269  
3,205 
Total accumulated amortization
 
(1,422)  
(2,028) 
Total net carrying value
$ 
847 $ 
1,177 
In the table above:
• The decrease in the net carrying value of identifiable 
intangible assets from December 2023 to December 2024 
reflected a $110  million reduction due to the sale of 
GreenSky Holdings, LLC (GreenSky) and a $72  million 
write-down in connection with the classification of the GM 
credit card program (included within Platform Solutions) 
as held for sale in 2024. 
• Substantially all of the firm’s identifiable intangible assets 
have finite useful lives and are amortized over their 
estimated useful lives generally using the straight-line 
method. 
The tables below present information about the amortization 
of identifiable intangible assets.
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Amortization
$ 
176 $ 
681 $ 
174 
In the table above, amortization for 2024 included the write-
down related to the GM credit card program noted above. 
Amortization for 2023 included a $506  million write-down 
related to GreenSky. 
As of
$ in millions
December 2024
Estimated future amortization
 
2025
$ 
79 
2026
$ 
73 
2027
$ 
73 
2028
$ 
72 
2029
$ 
72 
The firm tests identifiable intangible assets for impairment 
when events or changes in circumstances suggest that an 
asset’s or asset group’s carrying value may not be fully 
recoverable. To the extent the carrying value of an asset or 
asset group exceeds the projected undiscounted cash flows 
expected to result from the use and eventual disposal of the 
asset or asset group, the firm determines the asset or asset 
group is impaired and records an impairment equal to the 
difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying 
value of the asset or asset group. In addition, the firm will 
recognize an impairment prior to the sale of an asset or asset 
group if the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds 
its estimated fair value. Other than as noted above, there 
were no material impairments or write-downs during each of 
2024, 2023 and 2022. 
Operating Lease Right-of-Use Assets 
The firm enters into operating leases for real estate, office 
equipment and other assets, substantially all of which are 
used in connection with its operations. For leases longer than 
one year, the firm recognizes a right-of-use asset representing 
the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a 
lease liability representing the liability to make payments. 
The lease term is generally determined based on the 
contractual maturity of the lease. For leases where the firm 
has the option to terminate or extend the lease, an assessment 
of the likelihood of exercising the option is incorporated into 
the determination of the lease term. Such assessment is 
initially performed at the inception of the lease and is 
updated if events occur that impact the original assessment. 
An operating lease right-of-use asset is initially determined 
based on the operating lease liability, adjusted for initial 
direct costs, lease incentives and amounts paid at or prior to 
lease commencement. This amount is then amortized over 
the lease term. Right-of-use assets and operating lease 
liabilities recognized (in non-cash transactions for leases 
entered into or assumed) by the firm were $167 million for 
2024, $333  million for 2023 and $256  million for 2022. See 
Note 15 for information about operating lease liabilities. 
For leases where the firm will derive no economic benefit 
from leased space that it has vacated or where the firm has 
shortened the term of a lease when space is no longer needed, 
the firm will record an impairment or accelerated 
amortization of right-of-use assets. There were no material 
impairments or accelerated amortizations during each of 
2024, 2023 and 2022.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
188
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Miscellaneous Receivables and Other 
Miscellaneous receivables and other included:
• Investments in qualified affordable housing and renewable 
energy projects of $3.46 billion as of December 2024 and 
$3.39  billion as of December 2023. The firm receives tax 
credits for such investments. See Note 17 for further 
information about these investments.
• Assets classified as held for sale were $517  million as of 
December 2024 and $518 million as of December 2023. See 
below for further information. 
Assets Held for Sale. During 2024, in connection with the 
planned transition of the GM credit card program to another 
issuer, the firm classified the GM credit card program (within 
Platform Solutions) as held for sale. The firm had previously 
classified the GM co-branded credit card loans as held for 
sale in 2023. As of December 2024, the assets related to the 
GM credit card program consisted of the GM co-branded 
credit card portfolio of $1.8 billion (included in loans). See 
Note 9 for further information about loans classified as held 
for sale. 
Assets held for sale also included $517 million as of 
December 2024 and $327 million as of December 2023 of 
assets related to certain of the firm’s consolidated 
investments 
within 
Asset 
& 
Wealth 
Management. 
Substantially all of these assets consisted of property and 
equipment and were included in miscellaneous receivables 
and other within other assets. In addition, as of December 
2023, GreenSky (within Platform Solutions) was classified as 
held for sale. Assets related to GreenSky were approximately 
$3.4  billion and consisted of loans of approximately 
$3.0  billion (included in loans), segregated cash of 
approximately $110  million (included in cash and cash 
equivalents), identifiable intangible assets of approximately 
$110 million (included in identifiable intangible assets within 
other assets) and other assets of approximately $190 million 
(included in miscellaneous receivables and other within other 
assets). During 2024, the firm completed the sale of 
GreenSky. See Note 9 for further information about loans 
classified as held for sale, above for further information 
about identifiable intangible assets, and Note 15 for 
information about liabilities classified as held for sale.
Note 13. 
Deposits 
The table below presents information about deposits. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
U.S. offices
$ 341,711 $ 333,116 
Non-U.S. offices
 
91,302  
95,301 
Total
$ 433,013 $ 428,417 
In the table above: 
• Deposits include savings, demand and time deposits.
• All U.S. deposits were held at Goldman Sachs Bank USA 
(GS Bank USA). Substantially all non-U.S. deposits were 
held at Goldman Sachs International Bank (GSIB) and 
Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (GSBE).
• Substantially all deposits are interest-bearing.
The table below presents maturities of time deposits held in 
U.S. and non-U.S. offices. 
 
As of December 2024
$ in millions
U.S.
Non-U.S.
Total
2025
$ 86,122 $ 
23,167 $ 109,289 
2026
 
6,325  
543  
6,868 
2027
 
2,192  
215  
2,407 
2028
 
1,031  
194  
1,225 
2029
 
1,382  
192  
1,574 
2030 - thereafter
 
1,265  
50  
1,315 
Total
$ 98,317 $ 
24,361 $ 122,678 
In the table above:
• The aggregate amount of time deposits in denominations 
that met or exceeded the applicable insurance limits, or 
were otherwise not covered by insurance, were $19.00 
billion in U.S. deposits and $23.92 billion in non-U.S. 
deposits.
• Time deposits included $44.86 billion as of December 2024 
and $29.46 billion as of December 2023 of deposits 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option. See 
Note 10 for further information about deposits accounted 
for at fair value.  
The firm’s savings and demand deposits are recorded based 
on the amount of cash received plus accrued interest, which 
approximates fair value. In addition, the firm designates 
certain derivatives as fair value hedges to convert a portion of 
its time deposits not accounted for at fair value from fixed-
rate obligations into floating-rate obligations. The carrying 
value of time deposits not accounted for at fair value 
approximated fair value as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023. As these savings and demand deposits and 
time deposits are not accounted for at fair value, they are not 
included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy in Notes 4 and 5. 
Had these deposits been included in the firm’s fair value 
hierarchy, they would have been classified in level 2 as of 
both December 2024 and December 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
189
Note 14. 
Unsecured Borrowings 
The table below presents information about unsecured 
borrowings. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Unsecured short-term borrowings
$ 
69,709 $ 75,945 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
 
242,634  241,877 
Total
$ 312,343 $ 317,822 
Unsecured Short-Term Borrowings 
Unsecured short-term borrowings includes the portion of 
unsecured long-term borrowings maturing within one year of 
the financial statement date and unsecured long-term 
borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the 
financial statement date at the option of the holder. 
The firm accounts for certain hybrid financial instruments at 
fair value under the fair value option. See Note 10 for further 
information about unsecured short-term borrowings that are 
accounted for at fair value. In addition, the firm designates 
certain derivatives as fair value hedges to convert a portion of 
its unsecured short-term borrowings not accounted for at fair 
value 
from 
fixed-rate 
obligations 
into 
floating-rate 
obligations. The carrying value of unsecured short-term 
borrowings that are not recorded at fair value generally 
approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of the 
obligations. As these unsecured short-term borrowings are 
not accounted for at fair value, they are not included in the 
firm’s fair value hierarchy in Notes 4 and 5. Had these 
borrowings been included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy, 
substantially all would have been classified in level 2 as of 
both December 2024 and December 2023.
The table below presents information about unsecured short-
term borrowings. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Current portion of unsecured long-term borrowings
$ 
38,521 $ 49,361 
Hybrid financial instruments
 
29,130  
23,073 
Commercial paper
 
–  
1,213 
Other unsecured short-term borrowings
 
2,058  
2,298 
Total unsecured short-term borrowings
$ 
69,709 $ 75,945 
Weighted average interest rate 
 5.87% 
 3.64% 
In the table above, the weighted average interest rates for 
these borrowings include the effect of hedging activities and 
exclude unsecured short-term borrowings accounted for at 
fair value under the fair value option. See Note 7 for further 
information about hedging activities. 
Unsecured Long-Term Borrowings 
The table below presents information about unsecured long-
term borrowings. 
$ in millions
U.S. Dollar
Non-U.S.
 Dollar
Total
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Fixed-rate obligations:
Group Inc.
$ 116,077 $ 24,613 $ 140,690 
Subsidiaries
 
7,034  
3,708  
10,742 
Floating-rate obligations:
Group Inc.
 
18,017  
8,816  
26,833 
Subsidiaries
 
42,713  
21,656  
64,369 
Total
$ 183,841 $ 58,793 $ 242,634 
As of December 2023
 
 
Fixed-rate obligations:
Group Inc.
$ 112,821 $ 31,023 $ 143,844 
Subsidiaries
 
1,992  
3,739  
5,731 
Floating-rate obligations:
Group Inc.
 
18,936  
12,555  
31,491 
Subsidiaries
 
38,117  
22,694  
60,811 
Total
$ 171,866 $ 70,011 $ 241,877 
In the table above: 
• Unsecured long-term borrowings consists principally of 
senior borrowings, which have maturities extending 
through 2061. 
• Unsecured long-term borrowings included $89.19 billion as 
of December 2024 and $86.41 billion as of December 2023 
of borrowings accounted for at fair value under the fair 
value option. The carrying value of unsecured long-term 
borrowings for which the firm did not elect the fair value 
option was $153.44 billion as of December 2024 and 
$155.47 billion as of December 2023. The estimated fair 
value of such unsecured long-term borrowings was $156.31 
billion as of December 2024 and $157.75 billion as of 
December 2023. As these borrowings are not accounted for 
at fair value, they are not included in the firm’s fair value 
hierarchy in Notes 4 and 5. Had these borrowings been 
included in the firm’s fair value hierarchy, substantially all 
would have been classified in level 2 as of both December 
2024 and December 2023.
• Floating-rate obligations includes equity-linked, credit-
linked and indexed instruments. Floating interest rates are 
generally based on SOFR and Euro Interbank Offered 
Rate.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
190
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• U.S. dollar-denominated debt had interest rates ranging 
from 0.86% to 6.75% (with a weighted average rate of 
4.10%) as of December 2024 and 0.86% to 6.75% (with a 
weighted average rate of 3.73%) as of December 2023. 
These rates exclude unsecured long-term borrowings 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option. 
• Non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt had interest rates 
ranging from 0.25% to 7.25% (with a weighted average 
rate of 2.04%) as of December 2024 and 0.25% to 7.25% 
(with a weighted average rate of 2.11%) as of December 
2023. These rates exclude unsecured long-term borrowings 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option.
The table below presents unsecured long-term borrowings by 
maturity. 
As of December 2024
$ in millions
Group Inc.
Subsidiaries
Total 
2026
$ 
22,884 $ 
14,046 $ 
36,930 
2027
 
22,389  
18,749  
41,138 
2028
 
20,728  
8,476  
29,204 
2029
 
21,205  
11,531  
32,736 
2030 - thereafter
 
80,317  
22,309  
102,626 
Total
$ 
167,523 $ 
75,111 $ 
242,634 
In the table above: 
• Unsecured long-term borrowings maturing within one year 
of the financial statement date and unsecured long-term 
borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the 
financial statement date at the option of the holder are 
excluded as they are included in unsecured short-term 
borrowings. 
• Unsecured long-term borrowings that are repayable prior 
to maturity at the option of the firm are reflected at their 
contractual maturity dates. 
• Unsecured long-term borrowings that are redeemable prior 
to maturity at the option of the holder are reflected at the 
earliest dates such options become exercisable. 
• Unsecured long-term borrowings included $(10.74) billion 
of adjustments to the carrying value of certain unsecured 
long-term borrowings resulting from the application of 
hedge accounting by year of maturity as follows: $(250) 
million in 2026, $(837) million in 2027, $(867) million in 
2028, $(874) million in 2029 and $(7.91) billion in 2030 and 
thereafter. 
The firm designates certain derivatives as fair value hedges to 
convert a portion of fixed-rate unsecured long-term 
borrowings not accounted for at fair value into floating-rate 
obligations. See Note 7 for further information about hedging 
activities. 
The table below presents unsecured long-term borrowings, 
after giving effect to such hedging activities. 
$ in millions
Group Inc.
Subsidiaries
Total
As of December 2024
Fixed-rate obligations
$ 
19,883 $ 
5,783 $ 
25,666 
Floating-rate obligations
 
147,640  
69,328  
216,968 
Total
$ 167,523 $ 
75,111 $ 242,634 
As of December 2023
Fixed-rate obligations
$ 
15,460 $ 
4,912 $ 
20,372 
Floating-rate obligations
 
159,875  
61,630  
221,505 
Total
$ 175,335 $ 
66,542 $ 241,877 
In the table above, the aggregate amounts of unsecured long-
term borrowings had weighted average interest rates of 
5.72% (4.39% related to fixed-rate obligations and 5.82% 
related to floating-rate obligations) as of December 2024 and 
6.13% (3.44% related to fixed-rate obligations and 6.27% 
related to floating-rate obligations) as of December 2023. 
These rates exclude unsecured long-term borrowings 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option. 
Subordinated Borrowings 
Unsecured long-term borrowings includes subordinated debt 
and junior subordinated debt. Subordinated debt that 
matures within one year is included in unsecured short-term 
borrowings. Junior subordinated debt is junior in right of 
payment to other subordinated borrowings, which are junior 
to senior borrowings. Subordinated debt had maturities 
ranging from 2025 to 2045 as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023. 
The table below presents information about subordinated 
borrowings. 
$ in millions
Par
 Amount
Carrying
 Value
Rate
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Subordinated debt
$ 12,131 $ 11,217 
 6.89% 
Junior subordinated debt
 
968  
1,004 
 5.88% 
Total
$ 13,099 $ 12,221 
 6.82% 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
Subordinated debt
$ 12,215 $ 11,898 
 7.79% 
Junior subordinated debt
 
968  
1,053 
 6.30% 
Total
$ 13,183 $ 12,951 
 7.68% 
In the table above:
• The par amount of subordinated debt issued by Group Inc. 
was $12.13 billion as of December 2024 and $12.22 billion 
as of December 2023, and the carrying value of 
subordinated debt issued by Group Inc. was $11.22 billion 
as of December 2024 and $11.90  billion as of December 
2023. 
• The rate is the weighted average interest rate for these 
borrowings (excluding borrowings accounted for at fair 
value under the fair value option), including the effect of 
fair value hedges used to convert fixed-rate obligations into 
floating-rate 
obligations. 
See 
Note 
7 
for 
further 
information about hedging activities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
191
Junior Subordinated Debt 
In 2004, Group Inc. issued $2.84  billion of junior 
subordinated debt to Goldman Sachs Capital I, a Delaware 
statutory trust. Goldman Sachs Capital I issued $2.75 billion 
of guaranteed preferred beneficial interests (Trust Preferred 
securities) to third parties and $85  million of common 
beneficial interests to Group Inc. As of both December 2024 
and December 2023, the outstanding par amount of junior 
subordinated debt held by Goldman Sachs Capital I was $968 
million and the outstanding par amount of Trust Preferred 
securities and common beneficial interests issued by 
Goldman Sachs Capital I was $939 million and $29 million, 
respectively. Goldman Sachs Capital I is a wholly-owned 
finance subsidiary of the firm for regulatory and legal 
purposes but is not consolidated for accounting purposes. 
The firm pays interest semi-annually on the junior 
subordinated debt at an annual rate of 6.345% and the debt 
matures on February 15, 2034. The coupon rate and the 
payment dates applicable to the beneficial interests are the 
same as the interest rate and payment dates for the junior 
subordinated debt. The firm has the right, from time to time, 
to defer payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt, 
and therefore cause payment on Goldman Sachs Capital I’s 
preferred beneficial interests to be deferred, in each case up to 
ten consecutive semi-annual periods. During any such 
deferral period, the firm will not be permitted to, among 
other things, pay dividends on or make certain repurchases of 
its common stock. Goldman Sachs Capital I is not permitted 
to pay any distributions on the common beneficial interests 
held by Group Inc. unless all dividends payable on the 
preferred beneficial interests have been paid in full. 
Note 15. 
Other Liabilities 
The table below presents other liabilities by type. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Compensation and benefits
$ 
8,770 $ 
7,804 
Income tax-related liabilities
 
3,544  
2,947 
Operating lease liabilities
 
2,062  
2,232 
Noncontrolling interests
 
401  
363 
Employee interests in consolidated funds
 
16  
19 
Accrued expenses and other 
 
9,427  
10,438 
Total
$ 
24,220 $ 23,803 
Operating Lease Liabilities 
For leases longer than one year, the firm recognizes a right-
of-use asset representing the right to use the underlying asset 
for the lease term, and a lease liability representing the 
liability to make payments. See Note 12 for information 
about operating lease right-of-use assets. 
The table below presents information about operating lease 
liabilities. 
$ in millions
Operating
 lease liabilities
As of December 2024
 
2025
$ 
295 
2026
 
315 
2027
 
278 
2028
 
252 
2029
 
225 
2030 - thereafter
 
1,298 
Total undiscounted lease payments
 
2,663 
Imputed interest
 
(601) 
Total operating lease liabilities
$ 
2,062 
Weighted average remaining lease term
12 years
Weighted average discount rate
 4.25% 
As of December 2023
 
2024
$ 
325 
2025
 
325 
2026
 
288 
2027
 
256 
2028
 
231 
2029 - thereafter
 
1,462 
Total undiscounted lease payments
 
2,887 
Imputed interest
 
(655) 
Total operating lease liabilities
$ 
2,232 
Weighted average remaining lease term
12 years
Weighted average discount rate
 4.13% 
In the table above, the weighted average discount rate 
represents the firm’s incremental borrowing rate as of the 
date of adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” 
for operating leases existing on the date of adoption and as of 
the lease inception date for leases entered into subsequent to 
the adoption of this ASU. 
Operating lease costs were $473  million for 2024, 
$484  million for 2023 and $462  million for 2022. Variable 
lease costs, which are included in operating lease costs, were 
not material for each of 2024, 2023 and 2022. Total 
occupancy expenses for space held in excess of the firm’s 
current requirements were not material for each of 2024, 2023 
and 2022.
Lease payments relating to operating lease arrangements that 
were signed but had not yet commenced were $1.10 billion as 
of December 2024. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
192
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Accrued Expenses and Other 
Accrued expenses and other included: 
• Liabilities classified as held for sale were not material as of 
December 2024 and were $257  million as of December 
2023, substantially all of which related to GreenSky within 
Platform Solutions and consisted primarily of customer 
and other payables. See Note 12 for further information 
about assets held for sale.
• Contract liabilities, which represent consideration received 
by the firm in connection with its contracts with clients 
prior to providing the service, were not material as of both 
December 2024 and December 2023.
• Accrued unfunded commitments related to investments in 
qualified affordable housing projects were $2.15 billion as 
of December 2024 and $2.26 billion as of December 2023. 
See Note 17 for further information about these 
investments.
Note 16. 
Securitization Activities 
The firm securitizes residential and commercial mortgages, 
corporate bonds, loans and other types of financial assets by 
selling these assets to securitization vehicles (e.g., trusts, 
corporate entities and limited liability companies) or through 
a resecuritization. The firm acts as underwriter of the 
beneficial interests that are sold to investors. The firm’s 
residential 
mortgage 
securitizations 
are 
primarily 
in 
connection with government agency securitizations. 
The firm accounts for a securitization as a sale when it has 
relinquished control over the transferred financial assets. 
Prior to securitization, the firm generally accounts for assets 
pending transfer at fair value and therefore does not typically 
recognize significant gains or losses upon the transfer of 
assets. Net revenues from underwriting activities are 
recognized in connection with the sales of the underlying 
beneficial interests to investors.
The firm generally receives cash in exchange for the 
transferred assets but may also have continuing involvement 
with the transferred financial assets, including ownership of 
beneficial interests in securitized financial assets, primarily in 
the form of debt instruments. The firm may also purchase 
senior or subordinated securities issued by securitization 
vehicles (which are typically VIEs) in connection with 
secondary market-making activities. 
The primary risks included in beneficial interests and other 
interests from the firm’s continuing involvement with 
securitization vehicles are the performance of the underlying 
collateral, the position of the firm’s investment in the capital 
structure of the securitization vehicle and the market yield for 
the security. Interests accounted for at fair value are 
primarily classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
Interests not accounted for at fair value are carried at 
amounts that approximate fair value. See Note 4 for further 
information about fair value measurements. 
The table below presents the amount of financial assets 
securitized and the cash flows received on retained interests 
in securitization entities in which the firm had continuing 
involvement as of the end of the period. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Residential mortgages
$ 33,210 $ 20,276 
$ 26,717 
Commercial mortgages
 
7,238  
4,446 
 13,935 
Other financial assets
 
2,782  
5,951 
 
3,617 
Total financial assets securitized
$ 43,230 $ 30,673 
$ 44,269 
Retained interests cash flows
$ 
722 $ 
493 
$ 
551 
The firm securitized assets of $364 million during 2024, 
$369 million during 2023 and $792 million during 2022, in a 
non-cash exchange for loans and investments. 
The table below presents information about nonconsolidated 
securitization entities to which the firm sold assets and had 
continuing involvement as of the end of the period. 
$ in millions
Outstanding
 Principal
 Amount
Retained
 Interests
Purchased
 Interests
As of December 2024
U.S. government agency-issued CMOs $ 
34,049 $ 
3,053 $ 
– 
Other residential mortgage-backed
 
33,069  
1,357  
14 
Other commercial mortgage-backed
 
59,562  
945  
57 
Corporate debt and other asset-backed
 
12,059  
493  
5 
Total
$ 
138,739 $ 
5,848 $ 
76 
As of December 2023
U.S. government agency-issued CMOs $ 
31,140 $ 
2,260 $ 
– 
Other residential mortgage-backed
 
28,767  
1,162  
78 
Other commercial mortgage-backed
 
61,648  
1,192  
61 
Corporate debt and other asset-backed
 
12,501  
685  
56 
Total
$ 
134,056 $ 
5,299 $ 
195 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
193
In the table above: 
• CMOs represents collateralized mortgage obligations. 
• The outstanding principal amount is presented for the 
purpose of providing information about the size of the 
securitization entities and is not representative of the firm’s 
risk of loss. 
• The firm’s risk of loss from retained or purchased interests 
is limited to the carrying value of these interests. 
• Purchased interests represent senior and subordinated 
interests, purchased in connection with secondary market-
making activities, in securitization entities in which the 
firm also holds retained interests. 
• Substantially all of the total outstanding principal amount 
and total retained interests relate to securitizations during 
2019 and thereafter.
• The fair value of retained interests was $5.78 billion as of 
December 2024 and $5.26 billion as of December 2023. 
In addition to the interests in the table above, the firm had 
other continuing involvement in the form of derivative 
transactions and commitments with certain nonconsolidated 
VIEs. The carrying value of these derivatives and 
commitments was a net asset of $847 million as of December 
2024 and $120 million as of December 2023, and the notional 
amount of these derivatives and commitments was $2.78 
billion as of December 2024 and $1.95 billion as of December 
2023. The notional amounts of these derivatives and 
commitments are included in maximum exposure to loss in 
the nonconsolidated VIE table in Note 17. Additionally, the 
firm provided seller financing of $2.12 billion in connection 
with the sale of $4.44 billion of loans (the vast majority of 
which were related to GreenSky) during 2024 and of 
approximately $2.7  billion in connection with the sale of 
$3.24 billion of Marcus loans during 2023. The principal and 
interest repayments received from these financings were $2.85 
billion for 2024 and were $1.0  billion for 2023. Seller 
financing related to the GreenSky loans sale was fully repaid 
as of December 2024. The total outstanding principal amount 
of these seller financings were $1.32 billion as of December 
2024 and $1.81 billion as of December 2023.
The table below presents information about the weighted 
average key economic assumptions used in measuring the fair 
value of mortgage-backed retained interests. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Fair value of retained interests
$ 
5,292 $ 
4,590 
Weighted average life (years)
6.1
5.7
Constant prepayment rate
10.0%
12.2%
Impact of 10% adverse change
$ 
(57) $ 
(50) 
Impact of 20% adverse change
$ 
(110) $ 
(94) 
Discount rate
7.8%
7.6%
Impact of 10% adverse change
$ 
(136) $ 
(117) 
Impact of 20% adverse change
$ 
(281) $ 
(226) 
In the table above: 
• Amounts do not reflect the benefit of other financial 
instruments that are held to mitigate risks inherent in these 
retained interests. 
• Changes in fair value based on an adverse variation in 
assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the 
relationship of the change in assumptions to the change in 
fair value is not usually linear. 
• The impact of a change in a particular assumption is 
calculated independently of changes in any other 
assumption. 
In 
practice, 
simultaneous 
changes 
in 
assumptions might magnify or counteract the sensitivities 
disclosed above. 
• The constant prepayment rate is included only for 
positions for which it is a key assumption in the 
determination of fair value. 
• The discount rate for retained interests that relate to U.S. 
government agency-issued CMOs does not include any 
credit loss. Expected credit loss assumptions are reflected in 
the discount rate for the remainder of retained interests. 
The firm has other retained interests not reflected in the table 
above with a fair value of $491 million and a weighted 
average life of 5.0 years as of December 2024, and a fair value 
of $674 million and a weighted average life of 5.0 years as of 
December 2023. Due to the nature and fair value of certain of 
these retained interests, the weighted average assumptions for 
constant prepayment and discount rates and the related 
sensitivity to adverse changes are not meaningful as of both 
December 2024 and December 2023. The firm’s maximum 
exposure to adverse changes in the value of these interests is 
the carrying value of $493 million as of December 2024 and 
$685 million as of December 2023. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
194
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 17. 
Variable Interest Entities 
A variable interest in a VIE is an investment (e.g., debt or 
equity) or other interest (e.g., derivatives or loans and lending 
commitments) that will absorb portions of the VIE’s expected 
losses and/or receive portions of the VIE’s expected residual 
returns. 
The firm’s variable interests in VIEs include senior and 
subordinated debt; loans and lending commitments; limited 
and general partnership interests; preferred and common 
equity; derivatives that may include foreign currency, equity 
and/or credit risk; guarantees; and certain of the fees the firm 
receives from investment funds. Certain interest rate, foreign 
currency and credit derivatives the firm enters into with VIEs 
are not variable interests because they create, rather than 
absorb, risk. 
VIEs generally finance the purchase of assets by issuing debt 
and equity securities that are either collateralized by or 
indexed to the assets held by the VIE. The debt and equity 
securities issued by a VIE may include tranches of varying 
levels of subordination. The firm’s involvement with VIEs 
includes securitization of financial assets, as described in 
Note 16, and investments in and loans to other types of VIEs, 
as described below. See Note 3 for the firm’s consolidation 
policies, including the definition of a VIE. 
VIE Consolidation Analysis 
The enterprise with a controlling financial interest in a VIE is 
known as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. 
The firm determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a 
VIE by performing an analysis that principally considers: 
• Which variable interest holder has the power to direct the 
activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the 
VIE’s economic performance; 
• Which variable interest holder has the obligation to absorb 
losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that 
could potentially be significant to the VIE; 
• The VIE’s purpose and design, including the risks the VIE 
was designed to create and pass through to its variable 
interest holders; 
• The VIE’s capital structure; 
• The terms between the VIE and its variable interest holders 
and other parties involved with the VIE; and 
• Related-party relationships. 
The firm reassesses its evaluation of whether an entity is a 
VIE when certain reconsideration events occur. The firm 
reassesses its determination of whether it is the primary 
beneficiary of a VIE on an ongoing basis based on current 
facts and circumstances.
VIE Activities 
The firm is principally involved with VIEs through the 
following business activities: 
Mortgage-Backed VIEs. The firm sells residential and 
commercial mortgage loans and securities to mortgage-
backed VIEs and may retain beneficial interests in the assets 
sold to these VIEs. The firm purchases and sells beneficial 
interests issued by mortgage-backed VIEs in connection with 
market-making activities. In addition, the firm may enter into 
derivatives with certain of these VIEs, primarily interest rate 
swaps, which are typically not variable interests. The firm 
generally enters into derivatives with other counterparties to 
mitigate its risk. 
Tax Credit and Other Investing VIEs. The firm makes 
equity investments in VIEs that invest in qualified affordable 
housing and renewable energy projects designed to generate a 
return through the realization of tax credits and related tax 
benefits. The firm also purchases equity and debt securities 
issued by and makes loans to VIEs that hold real estate, 
performing and nonperforming debt, distressed loans and 
equity securities. In addition, the firm makes equity 
investments in certain investment fund VIEs it manages and is 
entitled to receive fees from these VIEs. The firm generally 
does not sell assets to, or enter into derivatives with, these 
VIEs. 
Corporate Debt and Other Asset-Backed VIEs. The firm 
structures VIEs that issue notes to clients, purchases and sells 
beneficial interests issued by corporate debt and other asset-
backed VIEs in connection with market-making activities, 
and makes loans to VIEs that warehouse corporate debt. 
Certain of these VIEs synthetically create the exposure for the 
beneficial interests they issue by entering into credit 
derivatives with the firm, rather than purchasing the 
underlying assets. In addition, the firm may enter into 
derivatives, such as total return swaps, with certain corporate 
debt and other asset-backed VIEs, under which the firm pays 
the VIE a return due to the beneficial interest holders and 
receives the return on the collateral owned by the VIE. The 
collateral owned by these VIEs is primarily other asset-
backed loans and securities. The firm may be removed as the 
total return swap counterparty and may enter into derivatives 
with other counterparties to mitigate its risk related to these 
swaps. The firm may sell assets to the corporate debt and 
other asset-backed VIEs it structures. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
195
Principal-Protected Note VIEs. The firm structures VIEs 
that issue principal-protected notes to clients. These VIEs 
own portfolios of assets, principally with exposure to hedge 
funds. Substantially all of the principal protection on the 
notes issued by these VIEs is provided by the asset portfolio 
rebalancing that is required under the terms of the notes. The 
firm enters into total return swaps with these VIEs under 
which the firm pays the VIE the return due to the principal-
protected note holders and receives the return on the assets 
owned by the VIE. The firm may enter into derivatives with 
other counterparties to mitigate its risk. The firm also 
obtains funding through these VIEs. 
Nonconsolidated VIEs 
The table below presents a summary of the nonconsolidated 
VIEs in which the firm holds variable interests. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Total nonconsolidated VIEs
 
 
Assets in VIEs
$ 206,500 $ 193,934 
Carrying value of variable interests — assets
$ 
16,710 $ 
15,478 
Carrying value of variable interests — liabilities
$ 
2,754 $ 
2,750 
Maximum exposure to loss:
 
 
Retained interests
$ 
5,848 $ 
5,299 
Purchased interests
 
767  
902 
Commitments and guarantees
 
5,034  
4,159 
Derivatives
 
8,974  
8,636 
Debt and equity
 
6,878  
6,927 
Total
$ 
27,501 $ 
25,923 
In the table above:  
• The nature of the firm’s variable interests is described in 
the rows under maximum exposure to loss. 
• The firm’s exposure to the obligations of VIEs is generally 
limited to its interests in these entities. In certain instances, 
the 
firm 
provides 
guarantees, 
including 
derivative 
guarantees, to VIEs or holders of variable interests in VIEs. 
• The maximum exposure to loss excludes the benefit of 
offsetting financial instruments that are held to mitigate the 
risks associated with these variable interests. 
• The maximum exposure to loss from retained interests, 
purchased interests, and debt and equity is the carrying 
value of these interests. 
• The maximum exposure to loss from commitments and 
guarantees, and derivatives is the notional amount, which 
does not represent anticipated losses and has not been 
reduced by unrealized losses. As a result, the maximum 
exposure 
to 
loss 
exceeds 
liabilities 
recorded 
for 
commitments and guarantees, and derivatives. 
The table below presents information, by principal business 
activity, for nonconsolidated VIEs included in the summary 
table above. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Mortgage-backed
 
 
Assets in VIEs
$ 128,378 $ 123,108 
Carrying value of variable interests — assets
$ 
5,618 $ 
4,867 
Maximum exposure to loss:
 
 
Retained interests
$ 
5,355 $ 
4,614 
Purchased interests
 
263  
253 
Commitments and guarantees
 
–  
35 
Derivatives
 
1  
2 
Total
$ 
5,619 $ 
4,904 
Tax credit and other investing
Assets in VIEs
$ 
55,311 $ 47,638 
Carrying value of variable interests — assets
$ 
6,978 $ 
6,716 
Carrying value of variable interests — liabilities
$ 
2,315 $ 
2,220 
Maximum exposure to loss:
 
 
Commitments and guarantees
$ 
4,138 $ 
3,893 
Debt and equity
 
4,831  
4,824 
Total
$ 
8,969 $ 
8,717 
Corporate debt and other asset-backed
Assets in VIEs
$ 
22,811 $ 23,188 
Carrying value of variable interests — assets
$ 
4,114 $ 
3,895 
Carrying value of variable interests — liabilities
$ 
439 $ 
530 
Maximum exposure to loss:
 
 
Retained interests
$ 
493 $ 
685 
Purchased interests
 
504  
649 
Commitments and guarantees
 
896  
231 
Derivatives
 
8,973  
8,634 
Debt and equity
 
2,047  
2,103 
Total
$ 
12,913 $ 12,302 
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2024, investment fund 
VIEs are included in tax credit and other investing in the 
table above. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2024, such VIEs 
were disclosed separately in investments in funds. The 
carrying value of the firm’s variable interests in such VIEs 
was $9 million as of December 2024 and $91  million as of 
December 2023. Prior period amounts have been conformed 
to the current presentation.
As of both December 2024 and December 2023, the carrying 
values of the firm’s variable interests in nonconsolidated VIEs 
are included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: 
• Mortgage-backed: Assets primarily included in trading 
assets and loans. 
• Tax credit and other investing: Assets primarily included in 
investments and other assets, and liabilities included in 
trading liabilities and other liabilities. 
• Corporate debt and other asset-backed: Assets included in 
loans and trading assets, and liabilities included in trading 
liabilities. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
196
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Tax Credit VIEs
The firm makes equity investments in nonconsolidated tax 
credit VIEs that invest in qualified affordable housing and 
renewable energy projects. These VIEs are generally 
organized as limited partnerships or similar entities and a 
third-party is typically the general partner or the managing 
member. The firm invests in the entity as a limited partner 
and receives income tax credits and other income tax benefits 
for such investments. In connection with the adoption of ASU 
No. 2023-02, as of January 1, 2024, the firm elected the 
proportional amortization method for qualified affordable 
housing and renewable energy projects that receive 
production tax credits. The investments that meet the criteria 
for the proportional amortization method of accounting are 
amortized in proportion to the income tax credits and other 
income tax benefits received on such investments. The 
amortization of investments and the related income tax 
credits and other income tax benefits are recorded as a 
component of the provision for taxes, and are included in 
other operating activities in the consolidated statements of 
cash flows.
The table below presents information about investments 
(included in miscellaneous receivables and other within other 
assets in the consolidated balance sheets) in qualified 
affordable housing and renewable energy projects that met 
the criteria of the proportional amortization method of 
accounting. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Carrying value of investments
$ 
3,456 $ 
3,394 
In the table above, investments included $2.15 billion as of 
December 2024 and $2.26 billion as of December 2023 of 
accrued unfunded commitments. As of December 2024, a 
majority of such accrued unfunded commitments were 
expected to be funded by year-end 2026. 
The table below presents information about the amortization 
and income tax credits and other income tax benefits related 
to investments in qualified affordable housing and renewable 
energy projects that met the criteria of the proportional 
amortization method of accounting. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Amortization
$ 
381 $ 
301 
$ 
127 
Tax credits and other benefits
$ 
452 $ 
370 
$ 
151 
Investments in qualified affordable housing projects that did 
not meet the criteria for the proportional amortization 
method of accounting were not material as of both December 
2024 and December 2023.
The firm’s existing investments in renewable energy projects 
that receive production tax credits were not eligible for 
transition to the proportional amortization method of 
accounting upon adoption of ASU No. 2023-02. Such 
investments were $1.39 billion as of December 2024 and $1.40 
billion as of December 2023, were included in investments in 
the consolidated balance sheets and were accounted for at 
fair value under the fair value option. 
Consolidated VIEs 
The table below presents a summary of the carrying value 
and balance sheet classification of assets and liabilities in 
consolidated VIEs. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Total consolidated VIEs
 
 
Assets
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 
172 $ 
439 
Customer and other receivables
 
325  
347 
Trading assets
 
95  
95 
Investments
 
170  
80 
Loans
 
9  
267 
Other assets
 
69  
248 
Total
$ 
840 $ 
1,476 
Liabilities
 
 
Other secured financings
$ 
661 $ 
850 
Customer and other payables
 
7  
2 
Unsecured short-term borrowings
 
5  
14 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
 
15  
17 
Other liabilities
 
165  
91 
Total
$ 
853 $ 
974 
In the table above: 
• Assets and liabilities are presented net of intercompany 
eliminations and exclude the benefit of offsetting financial 
instruments that are held to mitigate the risks associated 
with the firm’s variable interests. 
• VIEs in which the firm holds a majority voting interest are 
excluded if (i) the VIE meets the definition of a business 
and (ii) the VIE’s assets can be used for purposes other than 
the settlement of its obligations. 
• Substantially all assets can only be used to settle 
obligations of the VIE.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
197
The table below presents information, by principal business 
activity, for consolidated VIEs included in the summary table 
above. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Real estate, credit-related and other investing
 
Assets
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 
17 $ 
417 
Trading assets
 
18  
28 
Investments
 
170  
80 
Loans
 
9  
267 
Other assets
 
69  
248 
Total
$ 
283 $ 
1,040 
Liabilities
 
 
Other secured financings
$ 
4 $ 
143 
Customer and other payables
 
7  
2 
Other liabilities
 
165  
91 
Total
$ 
176 $ 
236 
Corporate debt and other asset-backed
 
 
Assets
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 
155 $ 
22 
Total
$ 
155 $ 
22 
Liabilities
 
 
Other secured financings
$ 
334 $ 
374 
Total
$ 
334 $ 
374 
Principal-protected notes
 
 
Assets
 
 
Customer and other receivables
$ 
325 $ 
347 
Trading assets
 
77  
67 
Total
$ 
402 $ 
414 
Liabilities
 
 
Other secured financings
$ 
323 $ 
333 
Unsecured short-term borrowings
 
5  
14 
Unsecured long-term borrowings
 
15  
17 
Total
$ 
343 $ 
364 
In the table above, creditors and beneficial interest holders of 
real estate, credit-related and other investing VIEs do not 
have recourse to the general credit of the firm. 
Note 18. 
Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees 
Commitments 
The table below presents commitments by type.  
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Commitment Type
 
 
Commercial lending:
 
 
Investment-grade
$ 124,001 $ 111,202 
Non-investment-grade
 
67,755  
54,298 
Warehouse financing
 
13,587  
9,184 
Consumer
 
78,099  
73,074 
Total lending
 
283,442  
247,758 
Risk participations
 
5,014  
8,167 
Collateralized agreement
 
95,282  
100,503 
Collateralized financing
 
49,333  
84,276 
Investment
 
5,832  
4,592 
Other
 
8,223  
8,258 
Total commitments
$ 447,126 $ 453,554 
The table below presents commitments by expiration. 
As of December 2024
2026 -
2028 -
2030 -
$ in millions
2025
2027
2029
Thereafter
Commitment Type
 
 
 
 
Commercial lending:
 
 
 
 
Investment-grade
$ 
19,773 $ 41,607 $ 59,574 $ 
3,047 
Non-investment-grade
 
5,752  
24,247  
28,326  
9,430 
Warehouse financing
 
1,296  
7,972  
3,774  
545 
Consumer
 
78,099  
–  
–  
– 
Total lending
 
104,920  
73,826  
91,674  
13,022 
Risk participations
 
583  
2,202  
2,203  
26 
Collateralized agreement
 
94,438  
844  
–  
– 
Collateralized financing
 
49,333  
–  
–  
– 
Investment
 
1,868  
754  
366  
2,844 
Other
 
7,796  
244  
40  
143 
Total commitments
$ 
258,938 $ 77,870 $ 94,283 $ 
16,035 
Lending Commitments 
The firm’s commercial and warehouse financing lending 
commitments are agreements to lend with fixed termination 
dates and depend on the satisfaction of all contractual 
conditions to borrowing. These commitments are presented 
net of amounts syndicated to third parties. The total 
commitment amount does not necessarily reflect actual future 
cash flows because the firm may syndicate portions of these 
commitments. In addition, commitments can expire unused 
or be reduced or cancelled at the counterparty’s request. The 
firm also provides credit to consumers by issuing credit card 
lines. The firm also provided credit to consumers through 
commitments to extend unsecured installment loans and 
beginning in the third quarter of 2024, ceased providing such 
commitments. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
198
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
The table below presents information about lending 
commitments. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Held for investment
$ 262,604 $ 227,865 
Held for sale
 
20,258  
19,129 
At fair value
 
580  
764 
Total
$ 283,442 $ 247,758 
In the table above: 
• Held for investment lending commitments are accounted 
for at amortized cost. The carrying value of lending 
commitments was a liability of $929 million (including 
allowance for credit losses of $674 million) as of December 
2024 and $845 million (including allowance for credit losses 
of $620 million) as of December 2023. The estimated fair 
value of such lending commitments was a liability of $4.84 
billion as of December 2024 and $5.29 billion as of 
December 2023. Had these lending commitments been 
carried at fair value and included in the fair value 
hierarchy, $2.44 billion as of December 2024 and $3.10 
billion as of December 2023 would have been classified in 
level 2, and $2.40 billion as of December 2024 and $2.19 
billion as of December 2023 would have been classified in 
level 3. 
• Held for sale lending commitments are accounted for at the 
lower of cost or fair value. The carrying value of lending 
commitments held for sale was a liability of $43 million as 
of December 2024 and $70 million as of December 2023. 
The estimated fair value of such lending commitments 
approximates the carrying value. Had these lending 
commitments been included in the fair value hierarchy, 
they would have been primarily classified in level 3 as of 
both December 2024 and December 2023. 
• Gains or losses related to lending commitments at fair 
value, if any, are generally recorded net of any fees in other 
principal transactions. 
Commercial Lending. The firm’s commercial lending 
commitments were primarily extended to investment-grade 
corporate borrowers. Such commitments primarily included 
$148.78 billion as of December 2024 and $137.11 billion as of 
December 2023, related to relationship lending activities 
(principally used for operating and general corporate 
purposes), and $11.26 billion as of December 2024 and $4.21 
billion as of December 2023, related to other investment 
banking activities (generally extended for contingent 
acquisition financing and are often intended to be short-term 
in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other 
funding sources). The firm also extends lending commitments 
in connection with other types of corporate lending, 
commercial real estate financing and other collateralized 
lending. See Note 9 for further information about funded 
loans. 
To mitigate the credit risk associated with the firm’s 
commercial lending activities, the firm obtains credit 
protection on certain loans and lending commitments 
through credit default swaps, both single-name and index-
based contracts. 
Warehouse Financing. The firm provides financing to 
clients who warehouse financial assets. These arrangements 
are collateralized by the warehoused assets, primarily 
consisting of residential real estate, consumer and corporate 
loans. 
Consumer. The firm’s consumer lending commitments 
includes: 
• Credit card lines issued by the firm to consumers were 
$78.10 billion as of December 2024 and $70.82 billion as of 
December 2023. Such credit card lines included $14.32 
billion as of December 2024 and $14.35 billion as of 
December 2023 of commitments classified as held for sale 
in connection with the planned sale of the GM co-branded 
credit card portfolio. These credit card lines are cancellable 
by the firm. 
• Commitments to provide unsecured installment loans to 
consumers were $2.25  billion as of December 2023 and 
such commitments were classified as held for sale in 
connection with the sale of GreenSky. During 2024, the 
firm completed the sale of GreenSky. 
Risk Participations 
The firm also risk participates certain of its commercial 
lending commitments to other financial institutions. In the 
event of a risk participant’s default, the firm will be 
responsible to fund the borrower. 
Collateralized 
Agreement 
Commitments/ 
Collateralized Financing Commitments 
Collateralized agreement commitments includes forward 
starting resale and securities borrowing agreements, and 
collateralized financing commitments includes forward 
starting repurchase and secured lending agreements that 
settle at a future date. Collateralized agreement commitments 
also includes transactions where the firm has entered into 
commitments to provide contingent financing to its clients 
and counterparties through resale agreements. The firm’s 
funding of these commitments depends on the satisfaction of 
all contractual conditions to the resale agreement and these 
commitments can expire unused. 
Investment Commitments 
Investment commitments includes commitments to invest in 
private equity, real estate and other assets directly and 
through funds that the firm raises and manages. Investment 
commitments included $1.10 billion as of December 2024 and 
$963 million as of December 2023, related to commitments to 
invest in funds managed by the firm. If these commitments 
are called, they would be funded at market value on the date 
of investment. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
199
Contingencies 
Legal Proceedings. See Note 27 for information about legal 
proceedings. 
Guarantees 
The table below presents derivatives that meet the definition 
of a guarantee, securities lending and clearing guarantees and 
certain other financial guarantees. 
$ in millions
Derivatives
Securities
 lending and
 clearing
Other
 financial
 guarantees
As of December 2024
 
 
 
Carrying Value of Net Liability
$ 
3,535 $ 
– $ 
425 
Maximum Payout/Notional Amount by Period of Expiration
2025
$ 181,940 $ 
58,056 $ 
2,523 
2026 - 2027
 
78,419  
–  
3,086 
2028 - 2029
 
17,074  
–  
1,843 
2030 - thereafter
 
31,819  
–  
505 
Total
$ 309,252 $ 
58,056 $ 
7,957 
As of December 2023
 
 
 
Carrying Value of Net Liability
$ 
5,240 $ 
– $ 
430 
Maximum Payout/Notional Amount by Period of Expiration
2024
$ 177,895 $ 
28,787 $ 
2,325 
2025 - 2026
 
98,843  
–  
3,108 
2027 - 2028
 
19,282  
–  
2,109 
2029 - thereafter
 
29,030  
–  
231 
Total
$ 325,050 $ 
28,787 $ 
7,773 
In the table above: 
• The maximum payout is based on the notional amount of 
the contract and does not represent anticipated losses. 
• Amounts exclude certain commitments to issue standby 
letters of credit that are included in lending commitments. 
See the tables in “Commitments” above for a summary of 
the firm’s commitments. 
• The carrying value for derivatives included derivative 
assets of $464 million as of December 2024 and $359 
million as of December 2023, and derivative liabilities of 
$4.00 billion as of December 2024 and $5.60 billion as of 
December 2023. 
Derivative Guarantees. The firm enters into various 
derivatives that meet the definition of a guarantee under U.S. 
GAAP, including written equity and commodity put options, 
written currency contracts and interest rate caps, floors and 
swaptions. These derivatives are risk managed together with 
derivatives that do not meet the definition of a guarantee, and 
therefore the amounts in the table above do not reflect the 
firm’s overall risk related to derivative activities. Disclosures 
about derivatives are not required if they may be cash settled 
and the firm has no basis to conclude it is probable that the 
counterparties held the underlying instruments at the 
inception of the contract. The firm has concluded that these 
conditions have been met for certain large, internationally 
active commercial and investment bank counterparties, 
central clearing counterparties, hedge funds and certain other 
counterparties. Accordingly, the firm has not included such 
contracts in the table above. See Note 7 for information 
about credit derivatives that meet the definition of a 
guarantee, which are not included in the table above. 
Derivatives are accounted for at fair value and therefore the 
carrying value is considered the best indication of payment/
performance risk for individual contracts. However, the 
carrying values in the table above exclude the effect of 
counterparty and cash collateral netting. 
Securities Lending and Clearing Guarantees. Securities 
lending and clearing guarantees include the indemnifications 
and guarantees that the firm provides in its capacity as an 
agency lender and in its capacity as a sponsoring member of 
the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation. 
As an agency lender, the firm indemnifies most of its 
securities lending customers against losses incurred in the 
event that borrowers do not return securities and the 
collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of the 
securities borrowed. The maximum payout of such 
indemnifications was $10.62 billion as of December 2024 and 
$14.19 billion as of December 2023. Collateral held by the 
lenders in connection with securities lending indemnifications 
was $11.02 billion as of December 2024 and $14.63 billion as 
of December 2023. Because the contractual nature of these 
arrangements requires the firm to obtain collateral with a 
market value that exceeds the value of the securities lent to 
the borrower, there is minimal performance risk associated 
with these indemnifications. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
200
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
As a sponsoring member of the Government Securities 
Division of the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, the firm 
guarantees the performance of its sponsored member clients 
to the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation in connection with 
certain resale and repurchase agreements. To minimize 
potential losses on such guarantees, the firm obtains a 
security interest in the collateral that the sponsored client 
placed with the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation. 
Therefore, the risk of loss on such guarantees is minimal. The 
maximum payout on this guarantee was $47.44 billion as of 
December 2024 and $14.60 billion as of December 2023. The 
related collateral held was $46.96 billion as of December 2024 
and $14.69 billion as of December 2023. 
Other Financial Guarantees. In the ordinary course of 
business, the firm provides other financial guarantees of the 
obligations of third parties (e.g., standby letters of credit and 
other guarantees to enable clients to complete transactions 
and fund-related guarantees). These guarantees represent 
obligations to make payments to beneficiaries if the 
guaranteed party fails to fulfill its obligation under a 
contractual arrangement with that beneficiary. Other 
financial guarantees also include a guarantee that the firm 
has provided to the Government of Malaysia that it will 
receive, by August 2025, at least $1.4  billion in assets and 
proceeds from assets seized by governmental authorities 
around the world related to 1Malaysia Development Berhad, 
a sovereign wealth fund in Malaysia (1MDB). In connection 
with this guarantee, the firm agreed to make a one-time 
interim payment of $250 million towards the $1.4 billion if 
the Government of Malaysia did not receive at least 
$500 million in assets and proceeds by August 2022. The firm 
does not believe that any interim payment is required. Any 
amounts paid by the firm would, in any event, be subject to 
reimbursement in the event the assets and proceeds received 
by the Government of Malaysia through August 18, 2028 
exceed $1.4 billion. 
On October 11, 2023, the firm filed a demand for arbitration 
alleging that the Government of Malaysia had, as of August 
2022, recovered assets and proceeds well in excess of 
$500  million; it had recovered substantial additional assets 
and proceeds that should be credited against the guarantee; 
and it had not used all reasonable efforts to recover other 
assets and proceeds that could be credited against the 
guarantee. On November 8, 2023, the Government of 
Malaysia filed a response to the firm’s demand for arbitration 
and on June 10, 2024, filed an application for a partial award 
to immediately enforce the interim payment (plus interest). 
On July 24, 2024, the arbitral tribunal rejected that 
application. Final determinations on all remaining issues, 
including any subsequent enforcement of the interim 
payment, are to be made at a final hearing. The arbitral 
process is ongoing. See Note 27 for further information about 
matters related to 1MDB.
Guarantees of Securities Issued by Trusts. The firm has 
established trusts, including Goldman Sachs Capital I, 
Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III (the 
Trusts), and other entities, for the limited purpose of issuing 
securities to third parties, lending the proceeds to the firm 
and entering into contractual arrangements with the firm and 
third parties related to this purpose. The firm does not 
consolidate these entities. See Notes 14 and 19 for further 
information about the transactions involving the Trusts. 
The firm effectively provides for the full and unconditional 
guarantee of the securities issued by these entities. Timely 
payment by the firm of amounts due to these entities under 
the guarantee, borrowing, preferred stock and related 
contractual arrangements will be sufficient to cover payments 
due on the securities issued by these entities. No subsidiary of 
Group Inc. guarantees the securities of the Trusts. 
Management 
believes 
that 
it 
is 
unlikely 
that 
any 
circumstances will occur, such as nonperformance on the part 
of paying agents or other service providers, that would make 
it necessary for the firm to make payments related to these 
entities other than those required under the terms of the 
guarantee, 
borrowing, 
preferred 
stock 
and 
related 
contractual arrangements and in connection with certain 
expenses incurred by these entities. 
Indemnities and Guarantees of Service Providers. In 
the ordinary course of business, the firm indemnifies and 
guarantees certain service providers, such as clearing and 
custody agents, trustees and administrators, against specified 
potential losses in connection with their acting as an agent of, 
or providing services to, the firm or its affiliates. 
The firm may also be liable to some clients or other parties 
for losses arising from its custodial role or caused by acts or 
omissions of third-party service providers, including sub-
custodians and third-party brokers. In certain cases, the firm 
has the right to seek indemnification from these third-party 
service providers for certain relevant losses incurred by the 
firm. In addition, the firm is a member of payment, clearing 
and settlement networks, as well as securities exchanges 
around the world that may require the firm to meet the 
obligations of such networks and exchanges in the event of 
member defaults and other loss scenarios. 
In connection with the firm’s prime brokerage and clearing 
businesses, the firm agrees to clear and settle transactions 
entered into by clients with other brokerage firms. The firm’s 
obligations in respect of such transactions are secured by the 
assets in the client’s account and proceeds received from the 
transactions cleared and settled by the firm on behalf of the 
client. In connection with joint venture investments, the firm 
may issue loan guarantees under which it may be liable in the 
event of fraud, misappropriation, environmental liabilities 
and other matters involving the borrower. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
201
The firm is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum 
payout under these guarantees and indemnifications as this 
depends upon the occurrence of future events, including an 
assessment of claims that have not yet occurred. However, 
management believes that it is unlikely the firm will have to 
make any material payments under these arrangements, and 
no material liabilities related to these guarantees and 
indemnifications have been recognized in the consolidated 
balance sheets as of both December 2024 and December 2023. 
Other 
Representations, 
Warranties 
and 
Indemnifications. The firm provides representations and 
warranties to counterparties in connection with a variety of 
commercial transactions and occasionally indemnifies them 
against potential losses caused by the breach of those 
representations and warranties. The firm may also provide 
indemnifications protecting against changes in or adverse 
application of certain U.S. tax laws in connection with 
ordinary-course transactions, such as securities issuances, 
borrowings or derivatives. 
In addition, the firm may provide indemnifications to some 
counterparties to protect them in the event additional taxes 
are owed or payments are withheld, due either to a change in 
or an adverse application of certain non-U.S. tax laws. These 
indemnifications, as well as indemnifications provided by the 
firm on other contractual or other obligations, generally are 
standard contractual terms and are entered into in the 
ordinary course of business. Generally, there are no stated or 
notional amounts included in these indemnifications, and the 
contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify are not 
expected to occur. Future changes in tax laws and how such 
laws would apply to these indemnifications cannot be 
determined. Therefore, the firm is unable to develop an 
estimate of the maximum payout under these guarantees and 
indemnifications. However, management believes that it is 
unlikely the firm will have to make any material payments 
under these arrangements, and no material liabilities related 
to these arrangements have been recognized in the 
consolidated balance sheets as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023. 
Guarantees of Subsidiaries. Group Inc. is the entity that 
fully and unconditionally guarantees the securities issued by 
GS Finance Corp., a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the 
firm. Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of 
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (GS&Co.), GS Bank USA and 
Goldman Sachs Paris Inc. et Cie, subject to certain 
exceptions. Group Inc. also guarantees many of the 
obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a 
transaction-by-transaction 
basis, 
as 
negotiated 
with 
counterparties. In addition, Group Inc. has provided 
guarantees to Goldman Sachs International (GSI) and GSBE 
related to agreements that each entity has entered into with 
certain of its counterparties. Given the obligations of the 
consolidated subsidiaries are recognized in the consolidated 
balance sheets or reflected as commitments, Group Inc.’s 
liabilities as guarantor are not separately disclosed. 
Note 19. 
Shareholders’ Equity 
Common Equity 
As of both December 2024 and December 2023, the firm had 
4.00 billion authorized shares of common stock and 200 
million authorized shares of nonvoting common stock, each 
with a par value of $0.01 per share. 
The firm’s share repurchase program is intended to help 
maintain the appropriate level of common equity. The share 
repurchase program is effected primarily through regular 
open-market purchases (which may include repurchase plans 
designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 and accelerated share 
repurchases), the amounts and timing of which are 
determined primarily by the firm’s current and projected 
capital position, and capital deployment opportunities, but 
which may also be influenced by the evolution of current and 
future regulatory capital requirements, general market 
conditions and the prevailing price and trading volumes of 
the firm’s common stock. 
The table below presents information about common stock 
repurchases. 
Year Ended December
in millions, except per share amounts
2024
2023
2022
Common share repurchases
17.5
16.8
10.1
Average cost per share
$ 457.82 $ 345.87 $ 346.07 
Total cost of common share repurchases
$ 8,000 $ 5,796 $ 3,500 
Pursuant to the terms of certain share-based awards, 
employees may remit shares to the firm or the firm may 
cancel share-based awards to satisfy statutory employee tax 
withholding requirements. Under these plans, 1,197 shares in 
2024, 868 shares in 2023 and 11,644 shares in 2022 were 
remitted with a total value of $0.5 million in 2024, $0.3 
million in 2023 and $4 million in 2022, and the firm cancelled 
3.4 million share-based awards in 2024, 3.9 million in 2023 
and 4.6 million in 2022, with a total value of $1.33 billion in 
2024, $1.35 billion in 2023 and $1.59 billion in 2022. The cash 
settlement of share-based awards is included in other in 
additional paid-in capital in the consolidated statements of 
shareholders’ equity and in other financing, net in the 
consolidated statements of cash flows. The amount of cash 
used to settle share-based awards was not material for each 
of 2024, 2023 and 2022.
The table below presents common stock dividends declared. 
Year Ended December
 
2024
2023
2022
Dividends declared per common share
$ 11.50 $ 10.50 $ 9.00 
On January 14, 2025, the Board of Directors of Group Inc. 
declared a dividend of $3.00 per common share to be paid on 
March  28, 2025 to common shareholders of record on 
February 28, 2025.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
202
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Preferred Equity 
The tables below present information about the perpetual 
preferred stock issued and outstanding as of December 2024. 
Series
Shares
 Authorized
Shares
 Issued
Shares
 Outstanding
Depositary 
Shares 
Per Share
A
50,000
30,000
29,999
1,000
C
25,000
8,000
8,000
1,000
D
60,000
54,000
53,999
1,000
E
17,500
7,667
7,667
 N.A. 
F
5,000
1,615
1,615
N.A.
O
26,000
26,000
26,000
25
Q
20,000
20,000
20,000
25
R
24,000
24,000
24,000
25
S
14,000
14,000
14,000
25
T
27,000
27,000
27,000
25
U
30,000
30,000
30,000
25
V
30,000
30,000
30,000
25
W
60,000
60,000
60,000
25
X
90,000
90,000
90,000
25
Y
80,000
80,000
80,000
25
Total
558,500
502,282
502,280
 
Series
Earliest Redemption Date
Liquidation
 Preference
Redemption Value
($ in millions)
A
Currently redeemable $ 
25,000 $ 
750 
C
Currently redeemable $ 
25,000  
200 
D
Currently redeemable $ 
25,000  
1,350 
E
Currently redeemable $ 
100,000  
767 
F
Currently redeemable $ 
100,000  
161 
O
November 10, 2026 $ 
25,000  
650 
Q
Currently redeemable $ 
25,000  
500 
R
February 10, 2025 $ 
25,000  
600 
S
February 10, 2025 $ 
25,000  
350 
T
May 10, 2026 $ 
25,000  
675 
U
August 10, 2026 $ 
25,000  
750 
V
November 10, 2026 $ 
25,000  
750 
W
February 10, 2029 $ 
25,000  
1,500 
X
May 10, 2029 $ 
25,000  
2,250 
Y
November 10, 2034 $ 
25,000  
2,000 
Total
 
 $ 
13,253 
In the tables above: 
• All shares have a par value of $0.01 per share and, where 
applicable, each share is represented by the specified 
number of depositary shares. 
• The earliest redemption date represents the date on which 
each share of non-cumulative preferred stock is redeemable 
at the firm’s option. 
• Prior to redeeming preferred stock, the firm must receive 
approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System (FRB).
• In April 2024, the firm issued 90,000 shares of Series X 
7.50% Fixed-Rate Reset Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock 
(Series X Preferred Stock).
• In September 2024, the firm issued 80,000 shares of Series Y 
6.125% Fixed-Rate Reset Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock 
(Series Y Preferred Stock).
• The redemption price per share for Series A through F and 
Series Q through Y Preferred Stock is the liquidation 
preference plus declared and unpaid dividends. The 
redemption price per share for Series O Preferred Stock is 
the liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid 
dividends.  
• All series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a 
preference over the firm’s common stock on liquidation. 
• The firm’s ability to declare or pay dividends on, or 
purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, its common stock is 
subject to certain restrictions in the event that the firm fails 
to pay or set aside full dividends on the preferred stock for 
the latest completed dividend period. 
• Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are held by Goldman 
Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III, 
respectively. These trusts are Delaware statutory trusts 
sponsored by the firm and wholly-owned finance 
subsidiaries of the firm for regulatory and legal purposes 
but are not consolidated for accounting purposes.
In 2024, the firm redeemed all outstanding shares of its (i) 
Series K 6.375% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative 
Preferred Stock (Series K Preferred Stock) with a redemption 
value of $700 million ($25,000 per share), plus accrued and 
unpaid dividends and (ii) Series P 5.00% Fixed-to-Floating 
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (Series P Preferred 
Stock) with a redemption value of $1.50 billion ($25,000 per 
share), plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The difference 
between the redemption value and net carrying value at the 
time of these redemptions was $34  million, which was 
recorded as an addition to preferred stock dividends in 2024.
In 2023, the firm redeemed all outstanding shares of its Series 
J 5.50% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred 
Stock (Series J Preferred Stock) with a redemption value of 
$1  billion ($25,000 per share), plus accrued and unpaid 
dividends. The difference between the redemption value and 
net carrying value was $10 million, which was recorded as an 
addition to preferred stock dividends in 2023.
In January 2025, the firm issued 76,000 shares of Series Z 
6.85% Fixed-Rate Reset Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock 
(Series Z Preferred Stock). Each share of Series Z Preferred 
Stock issued and outstanding has a liquidation preference of 
$25,000 per share, is represented by 25 depositary shares and 
is redeemable at the firm’s option beginning February 10, 
2030 at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share plus 
declared and unpaid dividends. Dividends on Series Z 
Preferred Stock, if declared, are payable semi-annually at (i) 
6.85% per annum from the issuance date to, but excluding, 
February 10, 2030 and, thereafter, (ii) 2.461% per annum plus 
the five-year treasury rate.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
203
The preferred stock issuance costs in the consolidated 
statements of shareholders’ equity reflects reclassifications of 
issuance costs to retained earnings on redemptions, net of 
issuance costs relating to new issuances.
The table below presents the dividend rates of perpetual 
preferred stock as of December 2024. 
Series
Per Annum Dividend Rate
A
3 month term SOFR + 1.01161%, with floor of 3.75%, payable quarterly
C
3 month term SOFR + 1.01161%, with floor of 4.00%, payable quarterly
D
3 month term SOFR + 0.93161%, with floor of 4.00%, payable quarterly
E
3 month term SOFR + 1.02911%, with floor of 4.00%, payable quarterly
F
3 month term SOFR + 1.03161%, with floor of 4.00%, payable quarterly
O
5.30%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding,
November 10, 2026; 3 month term SOFR + 4.09561%, payable quarterly, thereafter
Q
5 year treasury rate + 3.623%, payable semi-annually
R
4.95%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding, 
February 10, 2025; 5 year treasury rate + 3.224%, payable semi-annually, thereafter
S
4.40%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding,
February 10, 2025; 5 year treasury rate + 2.85%, payable semi-annually thereafter
T
3.80%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding, 
May 10, 2026; 5 year treasury rate + 2.969%, payable semi-annually, thereafter
U
3.65%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding, 
August 10, 2026; 5 year treasury rate + 2.915%, payable semi-annually, thereafter
V
4.125%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding, 
November 10, 2026; 5 year treasury rate + 2.949%, payable semi-annually, thereafter
W
7.50%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding, 
February 10, 2029; 5 year treasury rate + 3.156%, payable semi-annually, thereafter
X
7.50%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding, 
May 10, 2029; 5 year treasury rate + 2.809%, payable semi-annually, thereafter
Y
6.125%, payable semi-annually, from issuance date to, but excluding,
November 10, 2034; 10 year treasury rate +2.40%, payable semi-annually, thereafter
In the table above, dividends on each series of preferred stock 
are payable in arrears for the periods specified. 
The table below presents preferred stock dividends declared. 
 
2024
2023
2022
Series
per share
$ in 
millions
per share
$ in 
millions
per share
$ in 
millions
Year Ended December
A
$ 1,606.63 $ 
48 
$ 1,484.27 $ 
44 
$ 
950.51 $ 
28 
C
$ 1,606.63  
13 
$ 1,484.27  
12 
$ 1,013.90  
8 
D
$ 1,586.18  
86 
$ 1,463.99  
79 
$ 1,013.90  
55 
E
$ 6,423.37  
50 
$ 6,074.57  
46 
$ 4,055.55  
31 
F
$ 6,425.91  
10 
$ 6,077.09  
10 
$ 4,055.55  
6 
J
$ 
–  
– 
$ 1,261.02  
51 
$ 1,375.00  
55 
K
$ 796.88  
20 
$ 1,593.76  
44 
$ 1,593.76  
45 
O
$ 1,325.00  
34 
$ 1,325.00  
34 
$ 1,325.00  
34 
P
$ 1,623.09  
97 
$ 2,022.64  
121 
$ 1,250.00  
75 
Q
$ 1,375.00  
28 
$ 1,375.00  
28 
$ 1,375.00  
28 
R
$ 1,237.50  
30 
$ 1,237.50  
30 
$ 1,237.50  
30 
S
$ 1,100.00  
15 
$ 1,100.00  
16 
$ 1,100.00  
16 
T
$ 950.00  
26 
$ 
950.00  
26 
$ 
950.00  
26 
U
$ 912.50  
27 
$ 
912.50  
27 
$ 
942.92  
28 
V
$ 1,031.25  
31 
$ 1,031.25  
31 
$ 1,062.76  
32 
W
$ 1,833.33  
110 
$ 
–  
– 
$ 
–  
– 
X
$ 1,026.04  
92 
$ 
–  
– 
$ 
–  
– 
Total
$ 
717 
$ 
599 
$ 
497 
On January  7, 2025, Group Inc. declared dividends of 
$345.49 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, $345.49 per 
share of Series C Preferred Stock, $340.49 per share of Series 
D Preferred Stock, $922.38 per share of Series Q Preferred 
Stock, $618.75 per share of Series R Preferred Stock, $550.00 
per share of Series S Preferred Stock, $456.25 per share of 
Series U Preferred Stock and $937.50 per share of Series W 
Preferred Stock that were paid on February  10, 2025 to 
preferred shareholders of record on January  26, 2025. In 
addition, the firm declared dividends of $1,397.48 per share 
of Series E Preferred Stock and $1,398.11 per share of Series F 
Preferred Stock that will be paid on March  3, 2025 to 
preferred shareholders of record on February 16, 2025.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) 
The table below presents changes in accumulated other 
comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax, by type. 
$ in millions
Beginning 
balance 
Other 
comprehensive
income/(loss)
adjustments,
net of tax
Ending 
balance 
Year Ended December 2024
Currency translation
$ 
(847) $ 
32 $ 
(815) 
Debt valuation adjustment
 
(123)  
(263)  
(386) 
Pension and postretirement liabilities
 
(575)  
47  
(528) 
Available-for-sale securities
 
(1,373)  
401  
(972) 
Cash flow hedges
 
–  
(1)  
(1) 
Total
$ (2,918) $ 
216 $ (2,702) 
Year Ended December 2023
Currency translation
$ 
(785) $ 
(62) $ 
(847) 
Debt valuation adjustment
 
892  
(1,015)  
(123) 
Pension and postretirement liabilities
 
(499)  
(76)  
(575) 
Available-for-sale securities
 
(2,618)  
1,245  
(1,373) 
Cash flow hedges
 
–  
–  
– 
Total
$ (3,010) $ 
92 $ (2,918) 
Year Ended December 2022
Currency translation
$ 
(738) $ 
(47) $ 
(785) 
Debt valuation adjustment
 
(511)  
1,403  
892 
Pension and postretirement liabilities
 
(327)  
(172)  
(499) 
Available-for-sale securities
 
(492)  
(2,126)  
(2,618) 
Cash flow hedges
 
–  
–  
– 
Total
$ (2,068) $ 
(942) $ (3,010) 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
204
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 20. 
Regulation and Capital Adequacy 
The FRB is the primary regulator of Group Inc., a bank 
holding company under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956 and a financial holding company under amendments 
to this Act. The firm is subject to consolidated regulatory 
capital requirements which are calculated in accordance with 
the regulations of the FRB (Capital Framework). 
The capital requirements are expressed as risk-based capital 
and leverage ratios that compare measures of regulatory 
capital to risk-weighted assets (RWAs), average assets and 
off-balance sheet exposures. Failure to comply with these 
capital requirements would result in restrictions being 
imposed by the firm’s regulators and could limit the firm’s 
ability to repurchase shares, pay dividends and make certain 
discretionary compensation payments. The firm’s capital 
levels are also subject to qualitative judgments by the 
regulators about components of capital, risk weightings and 
other factors. Furthermore, certain of the firm’s subsidiaries 
are subject to separate regulations and capital requirements. 
Capital Framework 
The regulations under the Capital Framework are largely 
based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s 
(Basel Committee) capital framework for strengthening 
international capital standards (Basel III) and also implement 
certain provisions of the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Under the Capital 
Framework, the firm is an “Advanced approaches” banking 
organization and has been designated as a global systemically 
important bank (G-SIB).
The Capital Framework includes the minimum risk-based 
capital and the capital conservation buffer requirements. The 
buffer must consist entirely of capital that qualifies as 
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital. 
The firm calculates its CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total 
capital ratios in accordance with both the Standardized and 
Advanced Capital Rules. Each of the ratios calculated under 
the Standardized and Advanced Capital Rules must meet its 
respective capital requirements. 
Under the Capital Framework, the firm is also subject to 
leverage requirements which consist of a minimum Tier 1 
leverage ratio and a minimum supplementary leverage ratio 
(SLR), as well as the SLR buffer. 
Consolidated Regulatory Capital Requirements 
Risk-Based Capital Ratios. The table below presents the 
risk-based capital requirements. 
 
Standardized
Advanced
As of December 2024
CET1 capital ratio
 13.7% 
 10.0% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 15.2% 
 11.5% 
Total capital ratio
 17.2% 
 13.5% 
As of December 2023
CET1 capital ratio
 13.0% 
 10.0% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 14.5% 
 11.5% 
Total capital ratio
 16.5% 
 13.5% 
In the table above: 
• As of both December 2024 and December 2023, under both 
the Standardized and Advanced Capital Rules, the CET1 
capital ratio requirement includes a minimum of 4.5%, the 
Tier 1 capital ratio requirement includes a minimum of 
6.0% and the Total capital ratio requirement includes a 
minimum of 8.0%. These requirements also include the 
capital conservation buffer requirements, consisting of the 
G-SIB 
surcharge 
(Method 
2) 
of 
3.0% 
and 
the 
countercyclical capital buffer, which the FRB has set to 
zero percent. In addition, the capital conservation buffer 
requirements include the stress capital buffer (SCB) of 
6.2% as of December 2024 and 5.5% as of December 2023 
under the Standardized Capital Rules and a buffer of 2.5% 
as of both December 2024 and December 2023 under the 
Advanced Capital Rules. 
• The G-SIB surcharge is updated annually based on 
financial data from the prior year and is generally 
applicable for the following year. The G-SIB surcharge is 
calculated using two methodologies, the higher of which is 
reflected in the firm’s risk-based capital requirements. The 
first calculation (Method 1) is based on the Basel 
Committee’s methodology which, among other factors, 
relies upon measures of the size, activity and complexity of 
each G-SIB. The second calculation (Method 2) uses similar 
inputs but includes a measure of reliance on short-term 
wholesale funding.
 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
205
The table below presents information about risk-based 
capital ratios. 
$ in millions
Standardized
Advanced
As of December 2024
 
 
CET1 capital
$ 
103,065 $ 103,065 
Tier 1 capital
$ 
115,647 $ 115,647 
Tier 2 capital
$ 
14,125 $ 
10,164 
Total capital
$ 
129,772 $ 125,811 
RWAs
$ 
688,541 $ 674,812 
CET1 capital ratio
 15.0% 
 15.3% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 16.8% 
 17.1% 
Total capital ratio
 18.8% 
 18.6% 
As of December 2023
 
 
CET1 capital
$ 
99,442 $ 
99,442 
Tier 1 capital
$ 
110,288 $ 
110,288 
Tier 2 capital
$ 
14,874 $ 
10,684 
Total capital
$ 
125,162 $ 
120,972 
RWAs
$ 
692,737 $ 
665,348 
CET1 capital ratio
 14.4% 
 14.9% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 15.9% 
 16.6% 
Total capital ratio
 18.1% 
 18.2% 
Leverage Ratios. The table below presents the leverage 
requirements. 
As of December
 
2024
2023
Tier 1 leverage ratio
 4.0% 
 4.0% 
SLR
 5.0% 
 5.0% 
In the table above, the SLR requirement of 5% includes a 
minimum of 3% and a 2% buffer applicable to G-SIBs.
The table below presents information about leverage ratios. 
For the Three Months
 
Ended or as of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Tier 1 capital
$ 
115,647 $ 
110,288 
Average total assets
$ 1,699,419 $ 1,579,237 
Deductions from Tier 1 capital
 
(6,919)  
(7,167) 
Average adjusted total assets
 1,692,500  1,572,070 
Off-balance sheet and other exposures
 
428,256  
423,686 
Total leverage exposure
$ 2,120,756 $ 1,995,756 
Tier 1 leverage ratio
 6.8% 
7.0%
SLR
 5.5% 
5.5%
In the table above:
• Average total assets represents the average daily assets for 
the quarter adjusted for the impact of Current Expected 
Credit Losses (CECL) transition.
• Off-balance sheet and other exposures primarily includes 
the monthly average of off-balance sheet exposures, 
consisting of derivatives, securities financing transactions, 
commitments and guarantees.
• Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided 
by average adjusted total assets.
• SLR is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided by total leverage 
exposure.
Risk-Based Capital. The table below presents information 
about risk-based capital.
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Common shareholders’ equity
$ 108,743 $ 
105,702 
Impact of CECL transition
 
276  
553 
Deduction for goodwill
 
(5,159)  
(5,224) 
Deduction for identifiable intangible assets
 
(638)  
(950) 
Other adjustments
 
(157)  
(639) 
CET1 capital
 
103,065  
99,442 
Preferred stock
 
13,253  
11,203 
Deduction for investments in covered funds
 
(669)  
(354) 
Other adjustments
 
(2)  
(3) 
Tier 1 capital
$ 115,647 $ 
110,288 
Standardized Tier 2 and Total capital
 
 
Tier 1 capital
$ 115,647 $ 
110,288 
Qualifying subordinated debt
 
9,124  
9,886 
Allowance for credit losses
 
5,011  
5,012 
Other adjustments
 
(10)  
(24) 
Standardized Tier 2 capital
 
14,125  
14,874 
Standardized Total capital
$ 129,772 $ 
125,162 
Advanced Tier 2 and Total capital 
 
Tier 1 capital
$ 115,647 $ 
110,288 
Standardized Tier 2 capital
 
14,125  
14,874 
Allowance for credit losses
 
(5,011)  
(5,012) 
Other adjustments
 
1,050  
822 
Advanced Tier 2 capital
 
10,164  
10,684 
Advanced Total capital
$ 125,811 $ 
120,972 
In the table above:
• Beginning in January 2022, the firm started to phase in the 
estimated reduction to regulatory capital as a result of 
adopting the CECL model. The total amount of reduction 
to be phased in from January 1, 2022 through January 1, 
2025 (at 25% per year) was $1.11 billion, of which $829 
million had been phased in as of December 2024. The total 
amount to be phased in includes the impact of adopting 
CECL as of January 1, 2020, as well as 25% of the increase 
in the allowance for credit losses from January 1, 2020 
through December 31, 2021. The impact of CECL 
transition reflects the remaining amount of reduction to be 
phased in as of both December 2024 and December 2023.
• Deduction for goodwill was net of deferred tax liabilities of 
$694 million as of December 2024 and $692 million as of 
December 2023.
• Deduction for identifiable intangible assets was net of 
deferred tax liabilities of $209 million as of December 2024 
and $227 million as of December 2023. 
• Deduction for investments in covered funds represents the 
firm’s aggregate investments in applicable covered funds as 
defined in the Volcker Rule.
• Other adjustments within CET1 capital and Tier 1 capital 
primarily include CVAs on derivative liabilities, the 
overfunded portion of the firm’s defined benefit pension 
plan obligation net of associated deferred tax liabilities, 
disallowed deferred tax assets, debt valuation adjustments 
and other required credit risk-based deductions. Other 
adjustments within Advanced Tier 2 capital include eligible 
credit reserves. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
206
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Qualifying subordinated debt is subordinated debt issued 
by Group Inc. with an original maturity of five years or 
greater. The outstanding amount of subordinated debt 
qualifying for Tier 2 capital is reduced upon reaching a 
remaining maturity of five years. See Note 14 for further 
information about the firm’s subordinated debt. 
The table below presents changes in CET1 capital, Tier 1 
capital and Tier 2 capital.
$ in millions
Standardized 
Advanced 
Year Ended December 2024
 
 
CET1 capital
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
99,442 $ 
99,442 
Change in:
 
 
Common shareholders’ equity
 
3,041  
3,041 
Impact of CECL transition
 
(277)  
(277) 
Deduction for goodwill
 
65  
65 
Deduction for identifiable intangible assets
 
312  
312 
Other adjustments
 
482  
482 
Ending balance
$ 
103,065 $ 
103,065 
Tier 1 capital
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
110,288 $ 
110,288 
Change in:
 
 
CET1 capital
 
3,623  
3,623 
Preferred stock
 
2,050  
2,050 
Deduction for investments in covered funds
 
(315)  
(315) 
Other adjustments
 
1  
1 
Ending balance
 
115,647  
115,647 
Tier 2 capital
 
 
Beginning balance
 
14,874  
10,684 
Change in:
 
 
Qualifying subordinated debt
 
(762)  
(762) 
Allowance for credit losses
 
(1)  
– 
Other adjustments
 
14  
242 
Ending balance
 
14,125  
10,164 
Total capital
$ 
129,772 $ 
125,811 
RWAs. RWAs are calculated in accordance with both the 
Standardized and Advanced Capital Rules. 
Credit Risk 
Credit RWAs are calculated based on measures of exposure, 
which are then risk weighted under the Standardized and 
Advanced Capital Rules: 
• The Standardized Capital Rules apply prescribed risk-
weights, which depend largely on the type of counterparty. 
The exposure measures for derivatives and securities 
financing transactions are based on specific formulas which 
take certain factors into consideration. 
• Under the Advanced Capital Rules, the firm computes risk-
weights for wholesale and retail credit exposures in 
accordance with the Advanced Internal Ratings-Based 
approach. The exposure measures for derivatives and 
securities financing transactions are computed utilizing 
internal models. 
• For both Standardized and Advanced credit RWAs, the 
risk-weights for securitizations and equities are based on 
specific required formulaic approaches. 
Market Risk 
RWAs for market risk in accordance with the Standardized 
and Advanced Capital Rules are generally consistent. Market 
RWAs are calculated based on measures of exposure which 
include the following: 
• Value-at-Risk (VaR) is the potential loss in value of trading 
assets and liabilities, as well as certain investments, loans, 
and other financial assets and liabilities accounted for at 
fair value, due to adverse market movements over a defined 
time horizon with a specified confidence level.
For both risk management purposes and regulatory capital 
calculations, the firm uses a single VaR model which 
captures risks, including those related to interest rates, 
equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. 
However, VaR used for risk management purposes differs 
from VaR used for regulatory capital requirements 
(regulatory VaR) due to differences in time horizons, 
confidence levels and the scope of positions on which VaR 
is calculated. For risk management purposes, a 95% one-
day VaR is used, whereas for regulatory capital 
requirements, a 99% 10-day VaR is used to determine 
Market RWAs and a 99% one-day VaR is used to 
determine regulatory VaR exceptions. In addition, the daily 
net revenues used to determine risk management VaR 
exceptions (i.e., comparing the daily net revenues to the 
VaR measure calculated as of the end of the prior business 
day) include intraday activity, whereas the Capital 
Framework requires that intraday activity be excluded 
from daily net revenues when calculating regulatory VaR 
exceptions. Intraday activity includes bid/offer net 
revenues, which are more likely than not to be positive by 
their nature. As a result, there may be differences in the 
number of VaR exceptions and the amount of daily net 
revenues calculated for regulatory VaR compared to the 
amounts calculated for risk management VaR. 
The firm’s positional losses observed on a single day 
exceeded its 99% one-day regulatory VaR on two 
occasions during 2024 and on one occasion during 2023. 
There was no change in the firm’s VaR multiplier used to 
calculate Market RWAs; 
• Stressed VaR is the potential loss in value of trading assets 
and liabilities, as well as certain investments, loans, and 
other financial assets and liabilities accounted for at fair 
value, during a period of significant market stress; 
• Incremental risk is the potential loss in value of non-
securitized positions due to the default or credit migration 
of issuers of financial instruments over a one-year time 
horizon; 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
207
• Comprehensive risk is the potential loss in value, due to 
price risk and defaults, within the firm’s credit correlation 
positions; and 
• Specific risk is the risk of loss on a position that could 
result from factors other than broad market movements, 
including event risk, default risk and idiosyncratic risk. The 
standardized measurement method is used to determine 
specific risk RWAs, by applying supervisory defined risk-
weighting factors after applicable netting is performed. 
Operational Risk 
Operational RWAs are only required to be included under 
the Advanced Capital Rules. The firm utilizes an internal 
risk-based model to quantify Operational RWAs. 
The table below presents information about RWAs. 
$ in millions
Standardized
Advanced
As of December 2024
 
 
Credit RWAs
 
 
Derivatives
$ 
146,368 $ 
99,766 
Commitments, guarantees and loans
 
247,140  
199,816 
Securities financing transactions 
 
97,174  
22,846 
Equity investments
 
30,018  
31,457 
Other
 
71,013  
97,129 
Total Credit RWAs
 
591,713  
451,014 
Market RWAs
 
 
Regulatory VaR
 
19,995  
19,995 
Stressed VaR
 
48,249  
48,249 
Incremental risk
 
7,054  
7,054 
Comprehensive risk
 
2,057  
2,057 
Specific risk
 
19,473  
19,473 
Total Market RWAs
 
96,828  
96,828 
Total Operational RWAs
 
–  
126,970 
Total RWAs
$ 
688,541 $ 674,812 
As of December 2023
 
 
Credit RWAs
 
 
Derivatives
$ 
146,357 $ 
96,322 
Commitments, guarantees and loans
 
243,094  
194,236 
Securities financing transactions
 
103,704  
23,637 
Equity investments
 
34,223  
36,920 
Other
 
76,481  
96,755 
Total Credit RWAs
 
603,859  
447,870 
Market RWAs
 
 
Regulatory VaR
 
16,457  
16,457 
Stressed VaR
 
48,496  
48,496 
Incremental risk
 
5,032  
5,032 
Comprehensive risk
 
2,718  
2,718 
Specific risk
 
16,175  
16,175 
Total Market RWAs
 
88,878  
88,878 
Total Operational RWAs
 
–  
128,600 
Total RWAs
$ 
692,737 $ 
665,348 
In the table above: 
• Securities financing transactions represents resale and 
repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and loaned 
transactions. 
• Other includes receivables, certain debt securities, cash and 
cash equivalents, and other assets. 
The table below presents changes in RWAs.
$ in millions
Standardized 
Advanced 
Year Ended December 2024
 
 
RWAs
 
 
Beginning balance
$ 
692,737 $ 
665,348 
Credit RWAs
 
 
Change in:
 
 
Derivatives
 
11  
3,444 
Commitments, guarantees and loans
 
4,046  
5,580 
Securities financing transactions
 
(6,530)  
(791) 
Equity investments
 
(4,205)  
(5,463) 
Other
 
(5,468)  
374 
Change in Credit RWAs
 
(12,146)  
3,144 
Market RWAs
 
 
Change in:
 
 
Regulatory VaR
 
3,538  
3,538 
Stressed VaR
 
(247)  
(247) 
Incremental risk
 
2,022  
2,022 
Comprehensive risk
 
(661)  
(661) 
Specific risk
 
3,298  
3,298 
Change in Market RWAs
 
7,950  
7,950 
Change in Operational RWAs
 
–  
(1,630) 
Ending balance
$ 
688,541 $ 
674,812 
RWAs Rollforward Commentary 
Year Ended December 2024. Standardized Credit RWAs 
as of December 2024 decreased by $12.15 billion compared 
with December 2023, primarily reflecting a decrease in 
securities financing transactions (principally due to reduced 
funding exposures), a decrease in other credit RWAs 
(principally due to decreases in other assets), and a decrease 
in equity investments (principally due to reduced exposures). 
These decreases were partially offset by an increase in 
commitments, guarantees and loans (principally due to 
increased lending exposures). Standardized Market RWAs as 
of December 2024 increased by $7.95 billion compared with 
December 2023, primarily reflecting an increase in regulatory 
VaR (principally due to increased exposures) and an increase 
in specific risk (principally due to increased exposures to debt 
and equity instruments held for market-making purposes).
Advanced Credit RWAs as of December 2024 increased by 
$3.14 billion compared with December 2023, primarily 
reflecting an increase in commitments, guarantees and loans 
(principally due to increased lending exposures) and an 
increase in derivatives (principally due to increased 
counterparty credit risk). These increases were partially 
offset by a decrease in equity investments (principally due to 
reduced exposures). Advanced Market RWAs as of 
December 2024 increased by $7.95 billion compared with 
December 2023, primarily reflecting an increase in regulatory 
VaR (principally due to increased exposures) and an increase 
in specific risk (principally due to increased exposures to debt 
and equity instruments held for market-making purposes). 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
208
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
GS Bank USA 
GS Bank USA is the firm’s primary U.S. bank subsidiary. GS 
Bank USA is a New York State-chartered bank and a member 
of the Federal Reserve System, is supervised and regulated by 
the FRB, the FDIC, the New York State Department of 
Financial Services (NYDFS) and the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau (CFPB), and is subject to regulatory capital 
requirements that are calculated under the Capital 
Framework. GS Bank USA is an “Advanced approaches” 
banking organization under the Capital Framework. The 
deposits of GS Bank USA are insured by the FDIC to the 
extent provided by law. 
The Capital Framework includes the minimum risk-based 
capital and the capital conservation buffer requirements 
(consisting of a 2.5% buffer and the countercyclical capital 
buffer). The buffer must consist entirely of capital that 
qualifies as CET1 capital. In addition, the Capital 
Framework includes the leverage ratio requirement. GS Bank 
USA is required to calculate the CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital 
and Total capital ratios in accordance with both the 
Standardized and Advanced Capital Rules. The lower of each 
risk-based capital ratio under the Standardized and Advanced 
Capital Rules is the ratio against which GS Bank USA’s 
compliance with its risk-based capital requirements is 
assessed. In addition, under the regulatory framework for 
prompt corrective action applicable to GS Bank USA, in 
order to meet the quantitative requirements for a “well-
capitalized” depository institution, GS Bank USA must also 
meet the “well-capitalized” requirements in the table below. 
GS Bank USA’s capital levels and prompt corrective action 
classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the 
regulators about components of capital, risk weightings and 
other 
factors. 
Failure 
to 
comply 
with 
the 
capital 
requirements, including a breach of the buffers described 
below, would result in restrictions being imposed by the 
regulators. 
The table below presents GS Bank USA’s risk-based capital, 
leverage and “well-capitalized” requirements. 
As of December
 
2024
2023
2024
2023
"Well-capitalized"
Requirements
Requirements
Risk-based capital requirements
 
CET1 capital ratio
 7.0% 
 7.0% 
 6.5% 
 6.5% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 8.5% 
 8.5% 
 8.0% 
 8.0% 
Total capital ratio
 10.5% 
 10.5% 
 10.0% 
 10.0% 
Leverage requirements
 
Tier 1 leverage ratio
 4.0% 
 4.0% 
 5.0% 
 5.0% 
SLR
 3.0% 
 3.0% 
 6.0% 
 6.0% 
In the table above: 
• The CET1 capital ratio requirement includes a minimum of 
4.5%, the Tier 1 capital ratio requirement includes a 
minimum of 6.0% and the Total capital ratio requirement 
includes a minimum of 8.0%. These requirements also 
include the capital conservation buffer requirements 
consisting of a 2.5% buffer and the countercyclical capital 
buffer, which the FRB has set to zero percent.
• The “well-capitalized” requirements are the binding 
requirements for leverage ratios. 
The table below presents information about GS Bank USA’s 
risk-based capital ratios. 
$ in millions
Standardized
Advanced
As of December 2024
 
 
CET1 capital
$ 
62,022 $ 
62,022 
Tier 1 capital
$ 
62,022 $ 
62,022 
Tier 2 capital
$ 
4,209 $ 
955 
Total capital
$ 
66,231 $ 
62,977 
RWAs
$ 
386,922 $ 
284,624 
CET1 capital ratio
 16.0% 
 21.8% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 16.0% 
 21.8% 
Total capital ratio
 17.1% 
 22.1% 
As of December 2023
 
 
CET1 capital
$ 
53,781 $ 
53,781 
Tier 1 capital
$ 
53,781 $ 
53,781 
Tier 2 capital
$ 
6,314 $ 
2,951 
Total capital
$ 
60,095 $ 
56,732 
RWAs
$ 
380,774 $ 
288,938 
CET1 capital ratio
 14.1% 
 18.6% 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 14.1% 
 18.6% 
Total capital ratio
 15.8% 
 19.6% 
In the table above: 
• The lower of the Standardized or Advanced ratio is the 
ratio against which GS Bank USA’s compliance with the 
capital requirements is assessed under the risk-based 
Capital Rules, and therefore, the Standardized ratios 
applied to GS Bank USA as of both December 2024 and 
December 2023. 
• Beginning in January 2022, GS Bank USA started to phase 
in the estimated reduction to regulatory capital as a result 
of adopting the CECL model at 25% per year through 
January 2025. The total amount to be phased in includes 
the impact of adopting CECL as of January 1, 2020, as well 
as 25% of the increase in the allowance for credit losses 
from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021.
• The Standardized and Advanced risk-based capital ratios 
increased from December 2023 to December 2024, 
primarily reflecting an increase in capital, principally due 
to net earnings, and a decrease in Market RWAs, partially 
offset by an increase in Credit RWAs.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
209
The table below presents information about GS Bank USA’s 
leverage ratios.
For the Three Months
 
Ended or as of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Tier 1 capital
$ 
62,022 $ 
53,781 
Average adjusted total assets
$ 565,513 $ 
523,546 
Total leverage exposure
$ 775,170 $ 
722,465 
Tier 1 leverage ratio
 11.0% 
 10.3% 
SLR
 8.0% 
 7.4% 
In the table above: 
• Average adjusted total assets represents the average daily 
assets for the quarter adjusted for deductions from Tier 1 
capital and the impact of CECL transition. 
• Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided 
by average adjusted total assets. 
• SLR is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided by total leverage 
exposure. 
The FRB requires that GS Bank USA maintain cash reserves 
with the Federal Reserve. As of both December 2024 and 
December 2023, the reserve requirement ratio was zero 
percent. See Note 26 for further information about cash 
deposits held by the firm at the Federal Reserve.
GS Bank USA is a registered swap dealer with the CFTC and 
a registered security-based swap dealer with the SEC. As of 
both December 2024 and December 2023, GS Bank USA was 
subject to and in compliance with applicable capital 
requirements for swap dealers and security-based swap 
dealers. 
Restrictions on Payments 
Group Inc. may be limited in its ability to access capital held 
at certain subsidiaries as a result of regulatory, tax or other 
constraints. 
These 
limitations 
include 
provisions 
of 
applicable law and regulations and other regulatory 
restrictions that limit the ability of those subsidiaries to 
declare and pay dividends without prior regulatory approval. 
For example, the amount of dividends that may be paid by 
GS Bank USA are limited to the lesser of the amounts 
calculated under a recent earnings test and an undivided 
profits test.  
In addition, subsidiaries not subject to separate regulatory 
capital requirements may hold capital to satisfy local tax and 
legal guidelines, rating agency requirements (for entities with 
assigned credit ratings) or internal policies, including policies 
concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary 
should hold based on its underlying level of risk. 
Group Inc.’s equity investment in subsidiaries was $140.79 
billion as of December 2024 and $133.75 billion as of 
December 2023, of which Group Inc. was required to 
maintain $98.48 billion as of December 2024 and $95.80 
billion as of December 2023, of minimum equity capital in its 
regulated subsidiaries in order to satisfy the regulatory 
requirements of such subsidiaries. 
Group Inc.’s capital invested in certain non-U.S. dollar 
functional currency subsidiaries is exposed to foreign 
exchange risk, substantially all of which is managed through 
a combination of non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt and 
derivatives. See Note 7 for information about the firm’s net 
investment hedges used to hedge this risk.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
210
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 21. 
Earnings Per Common Share 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net earnings to common 
by the weighted average number of common shares 
outstanding and restricted stock units (RSUs) for which the 
delivery of the underlying common stock is not subject to 
satisfaction of future service, performance or market 
conditions (collectively, basic shares). Diluted EPS includes 
the determinants of basic EPS and, in addition, reflects the 
dilutive effect of the common stock deliverable for RSUs for 
which the delivery of the underlying common stock is subject 
to satisfaction of future service, performance or market 
conditions. 
The table below presents information about basic and diluted 
EPS. 
Year Ended December
in millions, except per share amounts
2024
2023
2022
Net earnings to common
$ 13,525 $ 7,907 
$ 10,764 
Weighted average basic shares
328.1
340.8
352.1
Effect of dilutive RSUs
5.5
5.0
6.0
Weighted average diluted shares
333.6
345.8
358.1
Basic EPS
$ 41.07 $ 23.05 
$ 30.42 
Diluted EPS
$ 40.54 $ 22.87 
$ 30.06 
In the table above: 
• Net earnings to common represents net earnings applicable 
to common shareholders, which is calculated as net 
earnings less preferred stock dividends. 
• Unvested share-based awards that have non-forfeitable 
rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are treated as a 
separate class of securities under the two-class method. 
Distributed earnings allocated to these securities reduce net 
earnings to common to calculate EPS under this method. 
The impact of applying this methodology was a reduction 
in basic EPS of $0.15 for each of 2024, 2023 and 2022.
• Diluted EPS does not include antidilutive RSUs, including 
those that are subject to market or performance conditions, 
of 0.1 million for 2024, 0.4 million for 2023 and 0.5 million 
for 2022. 
Note 22. 
Transactions with Affiliated Funds 
The firm has formed nonconsolidated investment funds with 
third-party investors. As the firm generally acts as the 
investment manager for these funds, it is entitled to receive 
management fees and, in certain cases, advisory fees or 
incentive fees from these funds. Additionally, the firm invests 
alongside its clients in certain funds. 
The tables below present information about affiliated funds. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Fees earned from funds
$ 5,399 
$ 
4,726 
$ 
4,553 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Fees receivable from funds
$ 
1,589 $ 
1,536 
Aggregate carrying value of interests in funds
$ 
4,079 $ 
4,042 
In the ordinary course of business, the firm may choose to 
provide voluntary financial support to funds, although any 
such support is not expected to be material to the results of 
operations of the firm. The firm has waived or deferred 
collection 
of 
management 
fees 
and 
has 
deferred 
reimbursement of expenses, and in the future may waive or 
defer collection of management fees, from select funds. The 
impact of these waivers and deferrals was not material to the 
firm’s results of operations for both 2024 and 2023. 
Management fees waived were $123 million for 2022. Except 
as noted above, the firm did not provide any additional 
financial support to its affiliated funds during each of 2024, 
2023 and 2022.
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the firm may 
also engage in other activities with its affiliated funds, 
including, among others, securities lending, trade execution, 
market-making, custody, and acquisition and bridge 
financing. See Note 18 for information about the firm’s 
investment commitments related to these funds. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
211
Note 23. 
Interest Income and Interest Expense 
Interest is recorded over the life of the instrument on an 
accrual basis based on contractual interest rates.
The table below presents sources of interest income and 
interest expense. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Deposits with banks
$ 9,282 $ 10,949 
$ 3,233 
Collateralized agreements
 19,895  16,405 
 
4,468 
Trading assets
 14,316  
8,460 
 
5,087 
Investments
 
5,998  
3,856 
 
2,199 
Loans
 16,162  14,905 
 
9,059 
Other interest
 15,744  13,940 
 
4,978 
Total interest income
 81,397  68,515 
 29,024 
Deposits
 20,282  17,010 
 
5,823 
Collateralized financings
 17,362  12,705 
 
2,808 
Trading liabilities
 
2,911  
2,453 
 
1,923 
Short-term borrowings
 
2,112  
1,322 
 
541 
Long-term borrowings
 11,010  11,084 
 
5,716 
Other interest
 19,664  17,590 
 
4,535 
Total interest expense
 73,341  62,164 
 21,346 
Net interest income
$ 8,056 $ 6,351 
$ 7,678 
In the table above: 
• Collateralized agreements includes rebates paid and 
interest income on securities borrowed. 
• Loans excludes interest on loans held for sale that are 
accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value. Such 
interest is included within other interest. 
• Other interest income includes interest income on customer 
debit balances, other interest-earning assets and loans held 
for sale that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair 
value. 
• Collateralized financings consists of repurchase agreements 
and securities loaned. 
• Short- and long-term borrowings include both secured and 
unsecured borrowings. 
• Other interest expense includes rebates received on other 
interest-bearing liabilities and interest expense on customer 
credit balances. 
Note 24. 
Income Taxes 
Provision for Income Taxes 
Income taxes are provided for using the asset and liability 
method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
recognized for temporary differences between the financial 
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The firm 
reports interest expense related to income tax matters in 
provision for taxes and income tax penalties in other 
expenses. 
The table below presents information about the provision for 
taxes.
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Current taxes
U.S. federal
$ 2,000 $ 1,230 $2,356
State and local
 
659  
389  
623 
Non-U.S.
 2,262  1,964  1,658 
Total current tax expense
 4,921  3,583  4,637 
Deferred taxes
U.S. federal
 
(869)  
(954)  (2,079) 
State and local
 
(140)  
(356)  
(436) 
Non-U.S.
 
209  
(50)  
103 
Total deferred tax (benefit)/expense
 
(800)  (1,360)  (2,412) 
Provision for taxes
$ 4,121 $ 2,223 $ 2,225 
The table below presents a reconciliation of the U.S. federal 
statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate.
Year Ended December
2024
2023
2022
U.S. federal statutory income tax rate
 21.0% 
 21.0%  21.0% 
State and local taxes, net of U.S. federal benefit
 
2.4  
0.6  
1.3 
Settlement of employee share-based awards
 
(1.2)  
(1.8)  
(2.4) 
Non-U.S. operations
 
(1.4)  
(2.4)  
(3.4) 
GILTI
 
2.8  
4.4  
1.8 
Tax credits
 
(0.8)  
(1.6)  
(0.9) 
Tax-exempt income, including dividends
 
(0.6)  
(1.0)  
(2.2) 
Non-deductible legal expenses
 
–  
0.2  
0.8 
Other
 
0.2  
1.3  
0.5 
Effective income tax rate
 22.4% 
 20.7%  16.5% 
In the table above:
• The firm recognizes income tax expense associated with 
Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) in the 
period in which it is incurred.
• Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023, GILTI is presented 
as a separate reconciliation item. Previously, GILTI was 
included in non-U.S. operations. Prior period amounts have 
been conformed to the current presentation.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
212
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Deferred Income Taxes 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary 
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of 
assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in 
taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are 
measured using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect 
when such differences are expected to reverse. Valuation 
allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets to the 
amount that more likely than not will be realized and 
primarily relate to the ability to utilize losses and tax credits 
in various tax jurisdictions. Tax assets are included in other 
assets and tax liabilities are included in other liabilities. 
The table below presents information about deferred tax 
assets and liabilities, excluding the impact of netting within 
tax jurisdictions.
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Deferred tax assets
Compensation and benefits
$ 1,888 $ 1,773 
ASC 740 asset related to unrecognized tax benefits
 
366  
331 
Non-U.S. operations
 
1,507  
1,278 
Unrealized losses
 
2,786  
2,100 
Net operating losses
 
786  
929 
Occupancy-related
 
85  
98 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)-related
 
714  
1,198 
Tax credits carryforward
 
461  
236 
Operating lease liabilities
 
581  
636 
Allowance for credit losses
 
1,412  
1,450 
Other, net
 
421  
165 
Subtotal
 11,007  10,194 
Valuation allowance
 (2,064)  
(1,978) 
Total deferred tax assets
$ 8,943 $ 8,216 
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation and amortization
$ 
982 $ 
752 
Operating lease right-of-use assets
 
512  
574 
Total deferred tax liabilities
$ 1,494 $ 1,326 
The firm has recorded deferred tax assets of $786 million as 
of December 2024 and $929 million as of December 2023, in 
connection with U.S. federal, state and local and foreign net 
operating loss carryforwards. The firm also recorded a 
valuation allowance of $328 million as of December 2024 and 
$396  million as of December 2023, related to these net 
operating loss carryforwards.  
As of December 2024, the U.S. federal net operating loss 
carryforward was $1.3 billion, the state and local net 
operating loss carryforward was $3.3 billion, and the foreign 
net operating loss carryforward was $1.5 billion. If not 
utilized, the U.S. federal, the state and local, and foreign net 
operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2025. If 
these carryforwards expire, they will not have a material 
impact on the firm’s results of operations. As of December 
2024, the firm has recorded deferred tax assets of $405 
million in connection with foreign tax credit carryforwards 
and a related valuation allowance of $289 million. As of 
December 2024, the firm has recorded deferred tax assets of 
$45 million in connection with general business credit 
carryforwards and $11 million in connection with state and 
local tax credit carryforwards. If not utilized, the foreign tax 
credit carryforward will begin to expire in 2033, the general 
business credit carryforward will begin to expire in 2025 and 
the state and local tax credit carryforward will begin to 
expire in 2026.
As of both December 2024 and December 2023, the firm had 
no U.S. federal capital loss carryforwards and no related net 
deferred income tax assets. As of December 2024, the firm 
had deferred tax assets of $7 million in connection with state 
and local capital loss carryforwards and a valuation 
allowance of $1 million related to these capital loss 
carryforwards. As of December 2024, the firm had deferred 
tax assets of $365 million in connection with foreign capital 
loss carryforwards and a valuation allowance of $346 million 
related to these capital loss carryforwards. 
The valuation allowance increased by $86 million during 
2024 and $409  million during 2023. The increases in both 
2024 and 2023 were primarily due to an increase in deferred 
tax assets from which the firm does not expect to realize any 
benefit. 
The firm permanently reinvested eligible earnings of certain 
foreign subsidiaries. As of both December 2024 and 
December 2023, all U.S. taxes were accrued on these 
subsidiaries’ distributable earnings. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
213
Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
The firm recognizes tax positions in the consolidated 
financial statements only when it is more likely than not that 
the position will be sustained on examination by the relevant 
taxing authority based on the technical merits of the position. 
A position that meets this standard is measured at the largest 
amount of benefit that will more likely than not be realized 
on settlement. A liability is established for differences 
between positions taken in a tax return and amounts 
recognized in the consolidated financial statements. 
The accrued liability for interest expense related to income 
tax matters and income tax penalties was $475 million as of 
December 2024 and $320 million as of December 2023. The 
firm recognized interest expense and income tax penalties of 
$113 million for 2024, $90 million for 2023 and $59 million 
for 2022. It is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax 
benefits could change significantly during the twelve months 
subsequent to December 2024 due to potential audit 
settlements. However, at this time it is not possible to 
estimate any potential change.
The table below presents the changes in the liability for 
unrecognized tax benefits, which is included in other 
liabilities.
Year Ended or as of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Beginning balance
$ 1,726 $ 1,533 $ 1,446 
Increases based on current year tax positions
 
381  
143  
190 
Increases based on prior years' tax positions
 
87  
164  
10 
Decreases based on prior years' tax positions
 
(23)  
(92)  
(32) 
Decreases related to settlements
 
(9)  
(20)  
(76) 
Exchange rate fluctuations
 
—  
(2)  
(5) 
Ending balance
$ 2,162 $ 1,726 $ 1,533 
In the table above, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits 
included $1.8 billion as of December 2024, $1.4 billion as of 
December 2023 and $1.2  billion as of December 2022 of 
unrecognized tax benefits which, if recognized, would reduce 
the annual effective tax rate. The remaining unrecognized tax 
benefits in the table above would not affect the annual tax 
rate, as such benefits have jurisdictional offsets or relate to 
temporary differences.
Regulatory Tax Examinations 
The firm is subject to examination by the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities in 
jurisdictions where the firm has significant business 
operations, such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Hong Kong 
and various states, such as New York. The tax years under 
examination vary by jurisdiction. The firm does not expect 
completion of these audits to have a material impact on the 
firm’s financial condition, but it may be material to operating 
results for a particular period, depending, in part, on the 
operating results for that period. 
The table below presents the earliest tax years that remain 
subject to examination by major jurisdiction. 
As of
Jurisdiction
December 2024
U.S. Federal
2011
New York State and City
2015
United Kingdom
2017
Japan
2018
Hong Kong
2018
The firm has been accepted into the Compliance Assurance 
Process (CAP) program by the IRS for each of the tax years 
from 2013 through 2025. This program allows the firm to 
work with the IRS to identify and resolve potential U.S. 
Federal tax issues before the filing of tax returns. All issues 
addressed through the CAP program for the 2011 through 
2018 tax years have been resolved and completion is pending 
final review by the Joint Committee on Taxation. All issues 
for the 2019 through 2022 tax years have been resolved and 
will be effectively settled pending administrative completion 
by the IRS. Final completion of tax years 2011 through 2022 
will not have a material impact on the effective tax rate. The 
2023 tax year remains subject to post-filing review. New 
York State and City examinations of tax years 2015 through 
2018 commenced during 2021.
All years, including and subsequent to the years in the table 
above, remain open to examination by the taxing authorities. 
The firm believes that the liability for unrecognized tax 
benefits it has established is adequate in relation to the 
potential for additional assessments.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
214
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 25. 
Business Segments 
The firm manages and reports its activities in three business 
segments: Global Banking & Markets, Asset & Wealth 
Management and Platform Solutions. These business 
segments are determined and organized based on products 
and services provided, and the types of customers and 
counterparties served. See Note 1 for a description of the 
firm’s business segments. 
The firm’s chief operating decision maker (CODM) is its 
president and chief operating officer. The CODM makes 
operating decisions, assesses the performance of, and 
allocates resources to, the firm’s operating segments 
principally based on the total net revenues of the segments, 
revenues net of provision for credit losses, total operating 
expenses, pre-tax earnings, net earnings applicable to 
common shareholders and the return on average common 
equity to assess the performance of the segments. The 
CODM evaluates segment operating performance against the 
firm’s targets and industry metrics and considers the current 
and future business and operating environment.
The accounting policies used to prepare the operating results 
and other metrics for the segments are consistent with those 
described in Note 3. The following provides a description of 
the primary components of the firm’s segment results 
disclosed in the table below.
• The firm fully allocates its revenues, expenses, assets and 
shareholders’ equity to the firm’s three business segments.
• Revenues and expenses directly associated with each 
segment are included in determining pre-tax earnings for 
the respective segment.  
• Net revenues in the firm’s segments include allocations of 
interest income and expense based on the funding 
generated by, or the funding and liquidity requirements of 
the respective segments. Net interest is included in segment 
net revenues as it is consistent with how management 
assesses segment performance. 
• Expenses not directly associated with specific segments are 
allocated among the business segments based on an 
estimate of support provided to each segment. 
• Compensation and benefits expenses in the firm’s segments 
reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of the 
firm, as well as the performance of individual businesses. 
Consequently, pre-tax margins in one segment of the firm’s 
business may be significantly affected by the performance 
of the firm’s other business segments.
• Certain assets (including allocations of global core liquid 
assets and cash, and secured client financing), not directly 
associated with specific segments are generally allocated 
among the business segments based on the funding and 
liquidity requirements of the segments. 
• Common shareholders’ equity and preferred stock 
dividends are allocated to each segment based on the 
estimated amount of equity required to support the 
activities of the segment under relevant regulatory capital 
requirements. 
• Net earnings for each segment is calculated by applying the 
firmwide tax rate to each segment’s pre-tax earnings. 
• Management believes that this allocation provides a 
reasonable representation of each segment’s contribution 
to consolidated net earnings to common, return on average 
common equity and total assets. Due to the integrated 
nature of these segments, estimates and judgments are 
made in allocating these assets, revenues and expenses. 
Transactions between segments are based on specific 
criteria or approximate third-party rates.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
215
Segment Results 
The table below presents a summary of the firm’s segment 
results. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Global Banking & Markets
 
 
Non-interest revenues
$ 32,538 $ 29,254 
$ 30,042 
Net interest income
 
2,405  
742 
 
2,445 
Total net revenues
 
34,943  
29,996 
 
32,487 
Provision for credit losses
 
40  
401 
 
468 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
9,426  
8,571 
 
8,661 
Other operating expenses
 
10,554  
9,469 
 
9,190 
Total operating expenses
 
19,980  
18,040 
 
17,851 
Pre-tax earnings
$ 14,923 $ 11,555 
$ 14,168 
Net earnings
$ 11,580 $ 
9,163 
$ 11,830 
Net earnings to common
$ 10,998 $ 
8,703 
$ 11,458 
Average common equity
$ 75,796 $ 71,863 
$ 69,951 
Return on average common equity
 14.5% 
 12.1% 
 16.4% 
Asset & Wealth Management
 
 
Non-interest revenues
$ 13,346 $ 10,790 
$ 
9,843 
Net interest income
 
2,796  
3,090 
 
3,533 
Total net revenues
 
16,142  
13,880 
 
13,376 
Provision for credit losses
 
(232)  
(508)  
519 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
6,595  
6,144 
 
5,927 
Other operating expenses
 
5,230  
6,885 
 
5,623 
Total operating expenses
 
11,825  
13,029 
 
11,550 
Pre-tax earnings
$ 
4,549 $ 
1,359 
$ 
1,307 
Net earnings
$ 
3,530 $ 
1,078 
$ 
1,092 
Net earnings to common
$ 
3,386 $ 
952 
$ 
979 
Average common equity
$ 26,405 $ 30,078 
$ 31,762 
Return on average common equity
 12.8% 
 3.2% 
 3.1% 
Platform Solutions
Non-interest revenues
$ 
(428) $ 
(141) $ 
(198) 
Net interest income
 
2,855  
2,519 
 
1,700 
Total net revenues
 
2,427  
2,378 
 
1,502 
Provision for credit losses
 
1,540  
1,135 
 
1,728 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
685  
784 
 
560 
Other operating expenses
 
1,277  
2,634 
 
1,203 
Total operating expenses
 
1,962  
3,418 
 
1,763 
Pre-tax earnings/(loss)
$ (1,075) $ (2,175) $ (1,989) 
Net earnings/(loss)
$ 
(834) $ (1,725) $ (1,661) 
Net earnings/(loss) to common
$ 
(859) $ (1,748) $ (1,673) 
Average common equity
$ 
4,573 $ 
3,863 
$ 
3,574 
Return on average common equity
 (18.8) %
 (45.2) %
 (46.8) %
Total
 
 
Non-interest revenues
$ 45,456 $ 39,903 
$ 39,687 
Net interest income
 
8,056  
6,351 
 
7,678 
Total net revenues
 
53,512  
46,254 
 
47,365 
Provision for credit losses
 
1,348  
1,028 
 
2,715 
Compensation and benefits expenses
 
16,706  
15,499 
 
15,148 
Other operating expenses
 
17,061  
18,988 
 
16,016 
Total operating expenses
 
33,767  
34,487 
 
31,164 
Pre-tax earnings
$ 18,397 $ 10,739 
$ 13,486 
Net earnings
$ 14,276 $ 
8,516 
$ 11,261 
Net earnings to common
$ 13,525 $ 
7,907 
$ 10,764 
Average common equity
$ 106,774 $ 105,804 
$ 105,287 
Return on average common equity
 12.7% 
 7.5% 
 10.2% 
In the table above: 
• Other operating expenses for Global Banking & Markets 
primarily included transaction based, communications and 
technology, and depreciation and amortization expenses. 
• Other operating expenses for Asset & Wealth Management 
primarily 
included 
transaction 
based 
expenses, 
depreciation and amortization expenses, and professional 
fees.
• Other operating expenses for Platform Solutions primarily 
included professional fees, depreciation and amortization 
expenses, and communications and technology expenses.
The table below presents depreciation and amortization 
expenses by segment. 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Global Banking & Markets
$ 1,119 $ 1,109 
$ 1,033 
Asset & Wealth Management
 
1,017  
2,425 
 
1,212 
Platform Solutions
 
256  
1,322 
 
210 
Total
$ 2,392 $ 4,856 
$ 2,455 
In the table above:
• Asset & Wealth Management included impairments related 
to commercial real estate in CIEs of $1.46 billion for 2023.
• Platform Solutions included a write-down related to 
GreenSky of $506 million for 2023, and an impairment of 
goodwill related to Consumer platforms of $504 million for 
2023.
Segment Assets 
The table below presents assets by segment. 
 
 
 As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Global Banking & Markets
$ 1,420,142 $ 1,381,247 
Asset & Wealth Management
 
193,328  
191,863 
Platform Solutions
 
62,502  
68,484 
Total
$ 1,675,972 $ 1,641,594 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
216
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Geographic Information 
Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial 
markets, the firm manages its businesses based on the 
profitability of the enterprise as a whole. The methodology 
for allocating profitability to geographic regions is dependent 
on estimates and management judgment because a significant 
portion of the firm’s activities require cross-border 
coordination in order to facilitate the needs of the firm’s 
clients. Geographic results are generally allocated as follows: 
• Global Banking & Markets: Investment banking fees and 
Other: location of the client and investment banking team; 
FICC intermediation and Equities intermediation: location 
of the market-making desk; FICC financing and Equities 
financing: location of the desk. 
• Asset & Wealth Management (excluding direct-to-
consumer 
business, 
Equity 
investments 
and 
Debt 
investments): location of the sales team; Direct-to-
consumer business: location of the client; Equity 
investments and Debt investments: location of the 
investment or investment professional. 
• Platform Solutions: location of the client. 
The table below presents total net revenues, pre-tax earnings 
and net earnings by geographic region. 
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Year Ended December
Americas
$ 34,448 
 64% $ 29,335 
 64% $ 28,669 
 61% 
EMEA
 12,250 
 23%  11,744 
 25%  12,860 
 27% 
Asia
 
6,814 
 13%  
5,175 
 11%  
5,836 
 12% 
Total net revenues
$ 53,512  100% $ 46,254  100% $ 47,365  100% 
Americas
$ 12,106 
 66% $ 6,038 
 56% $ 7,016 
 52% 
EMEA
 
4,418 
 24%  
4,033 
 38%  
5,260 
 39% 
Asia
 
1,873 
 10%  
668 
 6%  
1,210 
 9% 
Total pre-tax earnings $ 18,397  100% $ 10,739  100% $ 13,486  100% 
Americas
$ 9,354 
 66% $ 4,849 
 57% $ 6,067 
 54% 
EMEA
 
3,470 
 24%  
3,137 
 37%  
4,164 
 37% 
Asia
 
1,452 
 10%  
530 
 6%  
1,030 
 9% 
Total net earnings
$ 14,276  100% $ 8,516  100% $ 11,261  100% 
In the table above: 
• Americas pre-tax earnings for 2023 were impacted by 
impairments related to commercial real estate in CIEs, the 
write-down related to GreenSky, an impairment of 
goodwill related to Consumer platforms and the FDIC 
special assessment fee.
• Substantially all of the amounts in the Americas were 
attributable to the U.S. 
• Asia includes Australia and New Zealand. 
Note 26. 
Credit Concentrations 
The firm’s concentrations of credit risk arise from its market-
making, client facilitation, investing, underwriting, lending 
and collateralized transactions, and cash management 
activities, and may be impacted by changes in economic, 
industry or political factors. These activities expose the firm 
to many different industries and counterparties, and may also 
subject the firm to a concentration of credit risk to a 
particular central bank, counterparty, borrower or issuer, 
including sovereign issuers, or to a particular clearinghouse 
or exchange. The firm seeks to mitigate credit risk by actively 
monitoring 
exposures 
and 
obtaining 
collateral 
from 
counterparties as deemed appropriate. 
The firm measures and monitors its credit exposure based on 
amounts owed to the firm after taking into account risk 
mitigants that the firm considers when determining credit 
risk. Such risk mitigants include netting and collateral 
arrangements and economic hedges, such as credit 
derivatives, futures and forward contracts. Netting and 
collateral agreements permit the firm to offset receivables and 
payables with such counterparties and/or enable the firm to 
obtain collateral on an upfront or contingent basis. 
The table below presents the credit concentrations included 
in trading cash instruments and investments. 
 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
U.S. government and agency obligations
$ 389,148 $ 260,531 
Percentage of total assets
 23.2% 
 15.9% 
Non-U.S. government and agency obligations
$ 
74,496 $ 
90,681 
Percentage of total assets
 4.4% 
 5.5% 
In addition, the firm had $151.84 billion as of December 2024 
and $206.07 billion as of December 2023 of cash deposits held 
at central banks (included in cash and cash equivalents), of 
which $105.78 billion as of December 2024 and $105.66 
billion as of December 2023 was held at the Federal Reserve. 
As of both December 2024 and December 2023, the firm did 
not have credit exposure to any other counterparty that 
exceeded 2% of total assets.
Collateral obtained by the firm related to derivative assets is 
principally cash and is held by the firm or a third-party 
custodian. Collateral obtained by the firm related to resale 
agreements and securities borrowed transactions is primarily 
U.S. government and agency obligations, and non-U.S. 
government and agency obligations. See Note 11 for further 
information about collateralized agreements and financings. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
217
The table below presents U.S. government and agency 
obligations, and non-U.S. government and agency obligations 
that collateralize resale agreements and securities borrowed 
transactions. 
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
U.S. government and agency obligations
$ 129,942 $ 154,056 
Non-U.S. government and agency obligations
$ 
76,932 $ 92,833 
In the table above: 
• Non-U.S. government and agency obligations primarily 
consists of securities issued by the governments of the U.K., 
Japan, Germany and France.
• Given that the firm’s primary credit exposure on such 
transactions is to the counterparty to the transaction, the 
firm would be exposed to the collateral issuer only in the 
event of counterparty default. 
Note 27. 
Legal Proceedings 
The firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and 
arbitration proceedings (including those described below) 
concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of 
the firm’s businesses. Many of these proceedings are in early 
stages, and many of these cases seek an indeterminate 
amount of damages. 
Under ASC 450, an event is “reasonably possible” if “the 
chance of the future event or events occurring is more than 
remote but less than likely” and an event is “remote” if “the 
chance of the future event or events occurring is slight.” 
Thus, references to the upper end of the range of reasonably 
possible loss for cases in which the firm is able to estimate a 
range of reasonably possible loss mean the upper end of the 
range of loss for cases for which the firm believes the risk of 
loss is more than slight.
With respect to matters described below for which 
management has been able to estimate a range of reasonably 
possible loss where (i) actual or potential plaintiffs have 
claimed an amount of money damages, (ii) the firm is being, 
or threatened to be, sued by purchasers in a securities offering 
and is not being indemnified by a party that the firm believes 
will pay the full amount of any judgment, or (iii) the 
purchasers are demanding that the firm repurchase securities, 
management has estimated the upper end of the range of 
reasonably possible loss based on (a) in the case of (i), the 
amount of money damages claimed, (b) in the case of (ii), the 
difference between the initial sales price of the securities that 
the firm sold in such offering and the estimated lowest 
subsequent price of such securities prior to the action being 
commenced and (c) in the case of (iii), the price that 
purchasers paid for the securities less the estimated value, if 
any, as of December 2024 of the relevant securities, in each of 
cases (i), (ii) and (iii), taking into account any other factors 
believed to be relevant to the particular matter or matters of 
that type. As of the date hereof, the firm has estimated the 
upper end of the range of reasonably possible aggregate loss 
for such matters and for any other matters described below 
where management has been able to estimate a range of 
reasonably possible aggregate loss to be approximately 
$1.7  billion in excess of the aggregate reserves for such 
matters. 
Management is generally unable to estimate a range of 
reasonably possible loss for matters other than those included 
in the estimate above, including where (i) actual or potential 
plaintiffs have not claimed an amount of money damages, 
except in those instances where management can otherwise 
determine an appropriate amount, (ii) matters are in early 
stages, (iii) matters relate to regulatory investigations or 
reviews, except in those instances where management can 
otherwise determine an appropriate amount, (iv) there is 
uncertainty as to the likelihood of a class being certified or 
the ultimate size of the class, (v) there is uncertainty as to the 
outcome of pending appeals or motions, (vi) there are 
significant factual issues to be resolved, and/or (vii) there are 
novel legal issues presented. For example, the firm’s potential 
liabilities with respect to the investigations and reviews 
described below in “Regulatory Investigations and Reviews 
and Related Litigation” generally are not included in 
management’s estimate of reasonably possible loss. However, 
management does not believe, based on currently available 
information, that the outcomes of such other matters will 
have a material adverse effect on the firm’s financial 
condition, though the outcomes could be material to the 
firm’s operating results for any particular period, depending, 
in part, upon the operating results for such period. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
218
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
1MDB-Related Matters 
Between 2012 and 2013, subsidiaries of the firm acted as 
arrangers or purchasers of approximately $6.5 billion of debt 
securities of 1MDB. 
On November 1, 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) 
unsealed a criminal information and guilty plea by Tim 
Leissner, a former participating managing director of the 
firm, and an indictment against Ng Chong Hwa, a former 
managing director of the firm. On August 28, 2018, Leissner 
was adjudicated guilty by the U.S. District Court for the 
Eastern District of New York of conspiring to launder money 
and to violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act’s 
(FCPA) anti-bribery and internal accounting controls 
provisions. Ng was charged with conspiring to launder 
money and to violate the FCPA’s anti-bribery and internal 
accounting controls provisions, and on April 8, 2022, Ng was 
found guilty on all counts following a trial. 
On August 18, 2020, the firm announced that it entered into a 
settlement agreement with the Government of Malaysia to 
resolve the criminal and regulatory proceedings in Malaysia 
involving the firm, which includes a guarantee that the 
Government of Malaysia receives at least $1.4 billion in 
assets and proceeds from assets seized by governmental 
authorities around the world related to 1MDB. See Note 18 
for further information about this guarantee, including 
related arbitration proceedings. 
On October 22, 2020, the firm announced that it reached 
settlements of governmental and regulatory investigations 
relating to 1MDB with the DOJ, the SEC, the FRB, the 
NYDFS, the Financial Conduct Authority, the Prudential 
Regulation Authority, the Singapore Attorney General’s 
Chambers, the Singapore Commercial Affairs Department, 
the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Hong Kong 
Securities and Futures Commission. Group Inc. entered into a 
three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the DOJ, in 
which a charge against the firm, one count of conspiracy to 
violate the FCPA, was filed and was later dismissed on May 
6, 2024 in accordance with the agreement. In addition, GS 
Malaysia pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to violate 
the FCPA, and was sentenced on June 9, 2021. In May 2021, 
the U.S. Department of Labor granted the firm a five-year 
exemption to maintain its status as a qualified professional 
asset manager (QPAM).
On December 20, 2018, a putative securities class action 
lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern 
District of New York against Group Inc. and certain former 
officers of the firm alleging violations of the anti-fraud 
provisions of the Exchange Act with respect to Group Inc.’s 
disclosures and public statements concerning 1MDB and 
seeking unspecified damages. The plaintiff filed the second 
amended complaint on October 28, 2019. On June 28, 2021, 
the court dismissed the claims against one of the individual 
defendants but denied the defendants’ motion to dismiss with 
respect to the firm and the remaining individual defendants. 
On August 4, 2023, the plaintiff filed a third amended 
complaint. On September 29, 2023, the plaintiff moved for 
class certification. On April 5, 2024, the Magistrate Judge 
recommended 
that 
the 
plaintiff’s 
motion 
for 
class 
certification be granted in part and denied in part. On May 3, 
2024, the defendants filed objections to the Magistrate 
Judge’s report and recommendation with the district court.
Mortgage-Related Matters 
Complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the 
Southern District of New York on July 25, 2019 and May 29, 
2020 against Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company and GS 
Mortgage 
Securities 
Corp. 
by 
U.S. 
Bank 
National 
Association, as trustee for two residential mortgage-backed 
securitization trusts that issued $1.7 billion of securities. The 
complaints generally allege that mortgage loans in the trusts 
failed to conform to applicable representations and 
warranties and seek specific performance or, alternatively, 
compensatory damages and other relief. On November 23, 
2020, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants’ 
motion to dismiss the complaint in the first action and denied 
defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint in the second 
action. On January 14, 2021, amended complaints were filed 
in both actions. 
Currencies-Related Litigation 
GS&Co. is among the defendants named in a putative class 
action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern 
District of New York on August 4, 2021. The amended 
complaint, filed on January 6, 2022, generally asserts claims 
under federal antitrust law and state common law in 
connection with an alleged conspiracy among the defendants 
to manipulate auctions for foreign exchange transactions on 
an electronic trading platform, as well as claims under the 
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The 
complaint seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as 
unspecified amounts of treble and other damages. On May 
18, 2023, the court dismissed certain state common law 
claims, but denied dismissal of the remaining claims. On July 
7, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
219
Banco Espirito Santo S.A. and Oak Finance 
In December 2014, September 2015 and December 2015, the 
Bank of Portugal (BoP) rendered decisions to reverse an 
earlier transfer to Novo Banco of an $835 million facility 
agreement (the Facility), structured by GSI, between Oak 
Finance Luxembourg S.A. (Oak Finance), a special purpose 
vehicle formed in connection with the Facility, and Banco 
Espirito Santo S.A. (BES) prior to the failure of BES. In 
response, GSI and, with respect to the BoP’s December 2015 
decision, GSIB commenced actions beginning in February 
2015 against Novo Banco S.A. (Novo Banco) in the English 
Commercial Court and the BoP in the Portuguese 
Administrative Court. In July 2018, the English Supreme 
Court found that the English courts will not have jurisdiction 
over GSI’s action unless and until the Portuguese 
Administrative Court finds against BoP in GSI’s parallel 
action. In July 2018, the Liquidation Committee for BES 
issued a decision seeking to claw back from GSI $54 million 
paid to GSI and $50 million allegedly paid to Oak Finance in 
connection with the Facility, alleging that GSI acted in bad 
faith in extending the Facility, including because GSI 
allegedly knew that BES was at risk of imminent failure. In 
October 2018, GSI commenced an action in the Lisbon 
Commercial Court challenging the Liquidation Committee’s 
decision and has since also issued a claim against the 
Portuguese State seeking compensation for losses of 
approximately $222 million related to the failure of BES, 
together with a contingent claim for the $104 million sought 
by the Liquidation Committee. On April 11, 2023, GSI 
commenced administrative proceedings against the BoP, 
seeking the nullification of the BoP’s September 2015 and 
December 2015 decisions on new grounds.
Financial Advisory Services 
Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates are from time to time 
parties to various civil litigation and arbitration proceedings 
and other disputes with clients and third parties relating to 
the firm’s financial advisory activities. These claims generally 
seek, among other things, compensatory damages and, in 
some cases, punitive damages, and in certain cases allege that 
the firm did not appropriately disclose or deal with conflicts 
of interest. 
Archegos-Related Matters 
GS&Co. is among the underwriters named as defendants in a 
putative securities class action filed on August 13, 2021 in 
New York Supreme Court, County of New York, relating to 
ViacomCBS Inc.’s (ViacomCBS) March 2021 public offerings 
of $1.7 billion of common stock and $1.0 billion of preferred 
stock. In addition to the underwriters, the defendants include 
ViacomCBS and certain of its officers and directors. GS&Co. 
underwrote 646,154 shares of common stock representing an 
aggregate offering price of approximately $55 million and 
323,077 shares of preferred stock representing an aggregate 
offering price of approximately $32 million. The complaint 
asserts claims under the federal securities laws and alleges 
that 
the 
offering 
documents 
contained 
material 
misstatements and omissions, including, among other things, 
that the offering documents failed to disclose that Archegos 
Capital Management, LP (Archegos) had substantial 
exposure to ViacomCBS, including through total return 
swaps to which certain of the underwriters (the trading 
underwriters), 
including 
GS&Co., 
were 
allegedly 
counterparties, and that such underwriters failed to disclose 
their exposure to Archegos. On December 21, 2021, the 
plaintiffs filed a corrected amended complaint. The 
complaint seeks rescission and compensatory damages in 
unspecified amounts. On February 6, 2023, the trial court 
dismissed the claims against ViacomCBS and the individual 
defendants, but denied the defendants’ motions to dismiss 
with respect to GS&Co. and the other underwriter 
defendants. On January 4, 2024, the trial court granted the 
plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, and on February 14, 
2024, the underwriter defendants appealed. On April 4, 2024, 
the Appellate Division for the First Department affirmed the 
trial court’s dismissal of the claims against ViacomCBS and 
the individual defendants, reversed the trial court’s failure to 
dismiss the claims against the non-trading underwriter 
defendants, and affirmed the trial court’s denial of the 
motion to dismiss claims against the trading underwriter 
defendants, including GS&Co. 
Group Inc. is also a defendant in putative securities class 
actions filed beginning in October 2021 and consolidated in 
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New 
York. The complaints allege that Group Inc., along with 
another financial institution, sold shares in Baidu Inc. 
(Baidu), Discovery Inc. (Discovery), GSX Techedu Inc. 
(Gaotu), iQIYI Inc. (iQIYI), Tencent Music Entertainment 
Group (Tencent), ViacomCBS, and Vipshop Holdings Ltd. 
(Vipshop) 
based 
on 
material 
nonpublic 
information 
regarding the liquidation of Archegos’ position in Baidu, 
Discovery, Gaotu, iQIYI, Tencent, ViacomCBS and Vipshop, 
respectively. The complaints generally assert violations of 
Sections 10(b), 20A and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and seek 
unspecified damages. In May 2023, the plaintiffs in the class 
actions filed second amended complaints, and on March 28, 
2024, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
second amended complaints with prejudice. On April 26, 
2024, the plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for 
the Second Circuit.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
220
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Silicon Valley Bank Matters
GS&Co. is among the underwriters named as defendants in a 
putative securities class action filed on April 7, 2023 and 
consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Northern 
District of California and an individual action filed on 
January 25, 2024 in the same court relating to SVB Financial 
Group’s (SVBFG) January 2021 public offerings of 
$500  million principal amount of senior notes and 
$750  million of depositary shares representing interests in 
preferred stock, March 2021 public offering of approximately 
$1.2 billion of common stock, May 2021 public offerings of 
$1.0  billion of depositary shares representing interests in 
preferred stock and $500 million principal amount of senior 
notes, August 2021 public offering of approximately 
$1.3 billion of common stock, and April 2022 public offering 
of $800 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes, 
among other public offerings of securities. In addition to the 
underwriters, the defendants include certain of SVBFG’s 
officers and directors and its auditor. GS&Co. underwrote 
an aggregate of 831,250 depositary shares representing an 
aggregate offering price of approximately $831  million, an 
aggregate of 3,266,108 shares of common stock representing 
an aggregate offering price of approximately $1.8 billion and 
senior notes representing an aggregate price to the public of 
approximately $727 million. The complaints generally assert 
claims under the federal securities laws and allege that the 
offering documents contained material misstatements and 
omissions. The complaints seek compensatory damages in 
unspecified amounts. On March 17, 2023, SVBFG filed for 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the 
Southern District of New York. On January 16, 2024, the 
plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint in the 
putative class action, and on April 3, 2024, the defendants 
moved to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.
The firm is also cooperating with and providing information 
to various governmental bodies in connection with their 
investigations and inquiries regarding SVBFG and its 
affiliates (collectively SVB), including the firm’s business with 
SVB in or around March 2023, when SVB engaged the firm to 
assist with a proposed capital raise and SVB sold the firm a 
portfolio of securities.
Underwriting Litigation 
Firm affiliates are among the defendants in a number of 
proceedings in connection with securities offerings. In these 
proceedings, including those described below, the plaintiffs 
assert class action or individual claims under federal and state 
securities laws and, in some cases, other applicable laws, 
allege that the offering documents for the securities that they 
purchased contained material misstatements and omissions, 
and generally seek compensatory and rescissory damages in 
unspecified amounts, as well as rescission. Certain of these 
proceedings involve additional allegations. 
Uber 
Technologies, 
Inc. 
GS&Co. 
is 
among 
the 
underwriters named as defendants in several putative 
securities class actions filed beginning in September 2019 in 
California Superior Court, County of San Francisco and the 
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, 
relating to Uber Technologies, Inc.’s (Uber) $8.1 billion May 
2019 initial public offering. In addition to the underwriters, 
the defendants include Uber and certain of its officers and 
directors. GS&Co. underwrote 35,864,408 shares of common 
stock 
representing 
an 
aggregate 
offering 
price 
of 
approximately $1.6 billion. On November 16, 2020, the court 
in the state court action granted defendants’ motion to 
dismiss the consolidated amended complaint filed on 
February 11, 2020, and on December 16, 2020, plaintiffs 
appealed. On August 7, 2020, defendants’ motion to dismiss 
the district court action was denied. On September 25, 2020, 
the plaintiffs in the district court action moved for class 
certification. On December 5, 2020, the plaintiffs in the state 
court action filed a complaint in the district court, which was 
consolidated with the existing district court action on 
January 25, 2021. On May 14, 2021, the plaintiffs filed a 
second amended complaint in the district court, purporting to 
add the plaintiffs from the state court action as additional 
class representatives. On October 1, 2021, defendants’ 
motion to dismiss the additional class representatives from 
the second amended complaint was denied, and on July 26, 
2022, the district court granted the plaintiffs’ motion for class 
certification. On February 27, 2023, the U.S. Court of 
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit denied the defendants’ petition 
seeking interlocutory review of the district court’s grant of 
class certification. On December 4, 2024, the court in the 
federal court action approved a settlement, which does not 
require a contribution from GS&Co.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
221
Array 
Technologies, 
Inc. 
GS&Co. 
is 
among 
the 
underwriters named as defendants in a putative securities 
class action filed on May 14, 2021 in the U.S. District Court 
for the Southern District of New York relating to Array 
Technologies, Inc.’s (Array) $1.2 billion October 2020 initial 
public offering of common stock, $1.3 billion December 2020 
offering of common stock and $993 million March 2021 
offering of common stock. In addition to the underwriters, 
the defendants include Array and certain of its officers and 
directors. GS&Co. underwrote an aggregate of 31,912,213 
shares of common stock in the three offerings representing an 
aggregate offering price of approximately $877 million. On 
December 7, 2021, the plaintiffs filed an amended 
consolidated complaint, and on May 19, 2023, the court 
granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended 
consolidated complaint. On July 5, 2023, the court denied the 
plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend the amended 
consolidated complaint and dismissed the case with 
prejudice. On August 4, 2023, plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. 
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
ContextLogic Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters 
named as defendants in putative securities class actions filed 
beginning on May 17, 2021 and consolidated in the U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of California, 
relating to ContextLogic Inc.’s (ContextLogic) $1.1 billion 
December 2020 initial public offering of common stock. In 
addition to the underwriters, the defendants include 
ContextLogic and certain of its officers and directors. 
GS&Co. underwrote 16,169,000 shares of common stock 
representing an aggregate offering price of approximately 
$388 million. On July 15, 2022, the plaintiffs filed a 
consolidated amended complaint, and on March 10, 2023, the 
court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
consolidated amended complaint with leave to amend. On 
April 10, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a second consolidated 
amended complaint, and on December 22, 2023, the court 
granted in part and denied in part the defendants’ motion to 
dismiss the second consolidated amended complaint with 
leave to amend. On February 15, 2024, the plaintiffs filed a 
third consolidated amended complaint, and on August 22, 
2024, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
third consolidated amended complaint without leave to 
amend. On September 19, 2024, the plaintiffs filed a motion 
to alter the court’s judgment. 
DiDi Global Inc. Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C. (GS Asia) is 
among the underwriters named as defendants in putative 
securities class actions filed beginning on July 6, 2021 in the 
U.S. District Courts for the Southern District of New York 
and the Central District of California and New York 
Supreme Court, County of New York, relating to DiDi 
Global Inc.’s (DiDi) $4.4 billion June 2021 initial public 
offering of American Depositary Shares (ADS). In addition to 
the underwriters, the defendants include DiDi and certain of 
its officers and directors. GS Asia underwrote 104,554,000 
ADS 
representing 
an 
aggregate 
offering 
price 
of 
approximately $1.5 billion. On September 22, 2021, plaintiffs 
in the California action voluntarily dismissed their claims 
without prejudice. On May 5, 2022, plaintiffs in the 
consolidated federal action filed a second consolidated 
amended complaint, which includes allegations of violations 
of Sections 10(b) and 20A of the Exchange Act against the 
underwriter defendants. On March 14, 2024, the court denied 
the defendants’ motions to dismiss the second consolidated 
amended complaint. On January 6, 2025, the plaintiffs 
moved for class certification.
Vroom Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters named as 
defendants in an amended complaint for a putative securities 
class action filed on October 4, 2021 in the U.S. District 
Court for the Southern District of New York relating to 
Vroom Inc.’s (Vroom) approximately $589 million September 
2020 public offering of common stock. In addition to the 
underwriters, the defendants include Vroom and certain of its 
officers and directors. GS&Co. underwrote 3,886,819 shares 
of common stock representing an aggregate offering price of 
approximately $212 million. On December 20, 2021, the 
defendants served a motion to dismiss the consolidated 
complaint. On November 13, 2024, Vroom filed a Chapter 11 
bankruptcy petition in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the 
Southern District of Texas.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
222
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Zymergen Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters named 
as defendants in a putative securities class action filed on 
August 4, 2021 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern 
District of California relating to Zymergen Inc.’s (Zymergen) 
$575 million April 2021 initial public offering of common 
stock. In addition to the underwriters, the defendants include 
Zymergen, certain of its officers and directors and certain of 
its shareholders. GS&Co. underwrote 5,750,345 shares of 
common stock representing an aggregate offering price of 
approximately $178  million. On February 24, 2022, the 
plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, and on November 29, 
2022, the court granted in part and denied in part the 
defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended complaint, 
denying dismissal of the claims for violations of Section 11 of 
the Securities Act. On August 11, 2023, the court granted the 
plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. On October 3, 2023, 
Zymergen and three affiliates filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
petitions in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of 
Delaware. On March 4, 2024, the plaintiffs filed a second 
amended complaint.
Sea Limited. GS Asia is among the underwriters named as 
defendants in putative securities class actions filed on 
February 11, 2022 and June 17, 2022, respectively, in New 
York Supreme Court, County of New York, relating to Sea 
Limited’s approximately $4.0 billion September 2021 public 
offering of ADS and approximately $2.9  billion September 
2021 public offering of convertible senior notes, respectively. 
In addition to the underwriters, the defendants include Sea 
Limited, certain of its officers and directors and certain of its 
shareholders. 
GS 
Asia 
underwrote 
8,222,500 
ADS 
representing an aggregate offering price of approximately 
$2.6 billion and convertible senior notes representing an 
aggregate offering price of approximately $1.9  billion. On 
August 3, 2022, the actions were consolidated, and on August 
9, 2022, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended 
complaint. The defendants had previously moved to dismiss 
the action on July 15, 2022, with the parties stipulating that 
the motion would apply to the consolidated amended 
complaint. On May 15, 2023, the court granted the 
defendants’ motion to dismiss the consolidated amended 
complaint with prejudice. On May 28, 2024, the Appellate 
Division for the First Department reversed the trial court’s 
dismissal of the consolidated amended complaint, and on 
June 27, 2024, the defendants moved to reargue or 
alternatively, for leave to appeal the reversal. On November 
11, 2024, the parties reached a settlement in principle, subject 
to final documentation and court approval, to resolve this 
action, which does not require a contribution from GS Asia.
Rivian 
Automotive 
Inc. 
GS&Co. 
is 
among 
the 
underwriters named as defendants in putative securities class 
actions filed on March 7, 2022 and February 28, 2023 in the 
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California and 
in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of 
Orange, respectively, relating to Rivian Automotive Inc.’s 
(Rivian) approximately $13.7 billion November 2021 initial 
public offering. In addition to the underwriters, the 
defendants include Rivian and certain of its officers and 
directors. GS&Co. underwrote 44,733,050 shares of common 
stock 
representing 
an 
aggregate 
offering 
price 
of 
approximately $3.5 billion. On March 2, 2023, the plaintiffs 
in the federal court action filed an amended consolidated 
complaint, and on July 3, 2023, the court denied the 
defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended consolidated 
complaint. On June 30, 2023, the court in the state court 
action granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
complaint, and on September 1, 2023, the plaintiffs appealed. 
On July 17, 2024, the court in the federal court action granted 
the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification.
Natera Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters named as 
defendants in putative securities class actions in New York 
Supreme Court, County of New York and the U.S. District 
Court for the Western District of Texas filed on March 10, 
2022 and October 7, 2022, respectively, relating to Natera 
Inc.’s (Natera) approximately $585 million July 2021 public 
offering of common stock. In addition to the underwriters, 
the defendants include Natera and certain of its officers and 
directors. GS&Co. underwrote 1,449,000 shares of common 
stock 
representing 
an 
aggregate 
offering 
price 
of 
approximately $164 million. On July 15, 2022, the parties in 
the state court action filed a stipulation and proposed order 
approving the discontinuance of the action without prejudice. 
On September 11, 2023, the federal court granted in part and 
denied in part the defendants’ motion to dismiss. On June 4, 
2024, the plaintiffs in the federal court action moved for class 
certification, and on January 28, 2025, the Magistrate Judge 
recommended 
that 
the 
plaintiffs’ 
motion 
for 
class 
certification be granted. On February 21, 2025, the 
underwriter defendants filed objections to the Magistrate 
Judge’s report and recommendation with the district court.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
223
Robinhood 
Markets, 
Inc. GS&Co. is among the 
underwriters named as defendants in a putative securities 
class action filed on December 17, 2021 in the U.S. District 
Court for the Northern District of California relating to 
Robinhood Markets, Inc.’s (Robinhood) approximately $2.2 
billion July 2021 initial public offering. In addition to the 
underwriters, the defendants include Robinhood and certain 
of its officers and directors. GS&Co. underwrote 18,039,706 
shares of common stock representing an aggregate offering 
price of approximately $686 million. On February 10, 2023, 
the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
complaint with leave to amend, and on March 13, 2023, the 
plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint. On January 24, 
2024, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
second amended complaint without leave to amend. On 
February 21, 2024, the plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of 
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
ON24, Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters named as 
defendants in a putative securities class action filed on 
November 3, 2021 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern 
District of California relating to ON24, Inc.’s (ON24) 
approximately $492  million February 2021 initial public 
offering of common stock. In addition to the underwriters, 
the defendants include ON24 and certain of its officers and 
directors, including a director who was a Managing Director 
of GS&Co. at the time of the initial public offering. GS&Co. 
underwrote 3,616,785 shares of common stock representing 
an aggregate offering price of approximately $181  million. 
On March 18, 2022, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated 
complaint, and on July 7, 2023, the court granted the 
defendants’ motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint 
with leave to amend. On September 1, 2023, the plaintiffs 
filed an amended consolidated complaint, and on March 5, 
2024, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
amended consolidated complaint with prejudice. On April 4, 
2024, the plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for 
the Ninth Circuit.
Oscar Health, Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters 
named as defendants in a putative securities class action filed 
on May 12, 2022 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern 
District of New York relating to Oscar Health, Inc.’s (Oscar 
Health) approximately $1.4 billion March 2021 initial public 
offering. In addition to the underwriters, the defendants 
include Oscar Health and certain of its officers and directors. 
GS&Co. underwrote 12,760,633 shares of common stock 
representing an aggregate offering price of approximately 
$498  million. On December 5, 2022, the plaintiffs filed an 
amended complaint. On April 4, 2023, the defendants moved 
to dismiss the amended complaint. 
Oak Street Health, Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters 
named as defendants in an amended complaint for a putative 
securities class action filed on May 25, 2022 in the U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois relating to 
Oak Street Health, Inc.’s (Oak Street) $377  million August 
2020 initial public offering, $298  million December 2020 
secondary equity offering, $691  million February 2021 
secondary equity offering and $747  million May 2021 
secondary equity offering. In addition to the underwriters, 
the defendants include Oak Street, certain of its officers and 
directors 
and 
certain 
of 
its 
shareholders. 
GS&Co. 
underwrote 4,157,103 shares of common stock in the August 
2020 initial public offering representing an aggregate offering 
price of approximately $87  million, 1,503,944 shares of 
common stock in the December 2020 secondary equity 
offering representing an aggregate offering price of 
approximately $69  million, 3,083,098 shares of common 
stock in the February 2021 secondary equity offering 
representing an aggregate offering price of approximately 
$173  million and 3,013,065 shares of common stock in the 
May 2021 secondary equity offering representing an 
aggregate offering price of approximately $187  million. On 
February 10, 2023, the court granted in part and denied in 
part the defendants’ motion to dismiss, dismissing the claim 
alleging a violation of Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act 
and, with respect to the May 2021 secondary equity offering 
only, the claim alleging a violation of Section 11 of the 
Securities Act, but declining to dismiss the remaining claims. 
On December 15, 2023, the plaintiffs moved for class 
certification. On December 12, 2024, the court approved a 
settlement, which does not require a contribution from 
GS&Co.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
224
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Bright Health Group, Inc. GS&Co. is among the 
underwriters named as defendants in an amended complaint 
for a putative securities class action filed on June 24, 2022 in 
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York 
relating to Bright Health Group, Inc.’s (Bright Health) 
approximately $924 million June 2021 initial public offering 
of common stock. In addition to the underwriters, the 
defendants include Bright Health and certain of its officers 
and directors. GS&Co. underwrote 11,297,000 shares of 
common stock representing an aggregate offering price of 
approximately $203  million. On September 30, 2024, the 
court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended 
complaint, and on November 27, 2024, the plaintiffs 
appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
MINISO Group Holding Limited. GS Asia is among the 
underwriters named as defendants in a putative securities 
class action filed on August 17, 2022 in the U.S. District 
Court for the Central District of California and transferred to 
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York 
on November 18, 2022 relating to MINISO Group Holding 
Limited’s (MINISO) approximately $656  million October 
2020 initial public offering of ADS. In addition to the 
underwriters, the defendants include MINISO and certain of 
its officers and directors. GS Asia underwrote 16,408,093 
ADS 
representing 
an 
aggregate 
offering 
price 
of 
approximately $328 million. On April 24, 2023, the plaintiffs 
filed a second amended complaint, and on February 23, 2024, 
the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
second amended complaint with leave to amend.
Coupang, Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters named as 
defendants in a putative securities class action filed on August 
26, 2022 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of 
New 
York 
relating 
to 
Coupang, 
Inc.’s 
(Coupang) 
approximately $4.6 billion March 2021 initial public offering 
of common stock. In addition to the underwriters, the 
defendants include Coupang and certain of its officers and 
directors. GS&Co. underwrote 42,900,000 shares of common 
stock 
representing 
an 
aggregate 
offering 
price 
of 
approximately $1.5 billion. On May 24, 2023, the plaintiffs 
filed an amended complaint, and on July 28, 2023, the 
defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint.
Yatsen Holding Limited. GS Asia is among the 
underwriters named as defendants in a putative securities 
class action filed on September 23, 2022 in the U.S. District 
Court for the Southern District of New York relating to 
Yatsen 
Holding 
Limited’s 
(Yatsen) 
approximately 
$617 million November 2020 initial public offering of ADS. 
In addition to the underwriters, the defendants include 
Yatsen and certain of its officers and directors. GS Asia 
underwrote 22,912,500 ADS representing an aggregate 
offering price of approximately $241 million. On October 4, 
2023, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, and on July 
22, 2024, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss 
the amended complaint.
Rent the Runway, Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters 
named as defendants in a putative securities class action filed 
on November 14, 2022 in the U.S. District Court for the 
Eastern District of New York relating to Rent the Runway, 
Inc.’s (Rent the Runway) $357  million October 2021 initial 
public offering of common stock. In addition to the 
underwriters, the defendants include Rent the Runway and 
certain of its officers and directors. GS&Co. underwrote 
5,254,304 shares of common stock representing an aggregate 
offering price of approximately $110 million. On September 
5, 2023, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, and on 
September 25, 2024, the court granted in part and denied in 
part the defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended 
complaint. On October 9, 2024, the defendants filed a motion 
for reconsideration of the court’s order.
Opendoor Technologies Inc. GS&Co. is among the 
underwriters named as defendants in a putative securities 
class action filed on November 22, 2022 in the U.S. District 
Court for the District of Arizona relating to, among other 
things, 
Opendoor 
Technologies 
Inc.’s 
(Opendoor) 
approximately $886 million February 2021 public offering of 
common stock. In addition to the underwriters, the 
defendants include Opendoor and certain of its officers and 
directors. GS&Co. underwrote 10,173,401 shares of common 
stock 
representing 
an 
aggregate 
offering 
price 
of 
approximately $275 million. On April 17, 2023, the plaintiffs 
filed a consolidated amended complaint, and on February 28, 
2024, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
consolidated amended complaint with leave to amend. On 
May 14, 2024, the court granted the plaintiffs’ motion for 
reconsideration and vacated the dismissal of certain of the 
plaintiffs’ claims, and on September 9, 2024, the court denied 
the defendants’ motion for certification of an interlocutory 
appeal as to the plaintiffs’ surviving claims.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
225
FIGS, Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters named as 
defendants in a putative securities class action filed on 
December 8, 2022 in the U.S. District Court for the Central 
District of California relating to FIGS, Inc.’s (FIGS) 
approximately $668 million May 2021 initial public offering 
and approximately $413  million September 2021 secondary 
equity offering. In addition to the underwriters, the 
defendants include FIGS, certain of its officers and directors 
and certain of its shareholders. GS&Co. underwrote 
9,545,073 shares of common stock in the May 2021 initial 
public offering representing an aggregate offering price of 
approximately $210 million and 3,179,047 shares of common 
stock in the September 2021 secondary equity offering 
representing an aggregate offering price of approximately 
$128  million. On April 10, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a 
consolidated complaint, and on January 17, 2024, the court 
granted the defendants’ motions to dismiss the consolidated 
complaint with leave to amend. On March 19, 2024, the 
plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint, and on January 10, 
2025, the court granted in part and denied in part the 
defendants’ motions to dismiss the first amended complaint 
with leave to amend, resulting in the dismissal of all claims 
against the underwriter defendants, including GS&Co. On 
February 10, 2025, the plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of 
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
Silvergate Capital Corporation. GS&Co. is among the 
underwriters and sales agents named as defendants in a 
putative securities class action filed on January 19, 2023 in 
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of 
California, as amended on May 11, 2023, relating to 
Silvergate Capital Corporation’s (Silvergate) approximately 
$288 million January 2021 public offering of common stock, 
approximately $300  million “at-the-market” offering of 
common stock conducted from March through May 2021, 
approximately $200  million July 2021 public offering of 
depositary shares representing interests in preferred stock, 
and approximately $552  million December 2021 public 
offering of common stock. In addition to the underwriters 
and sales agents, the defendants include Silvergate and certain 
of its officers and directors. GS&Co. underwrote 1,711,313 
shares of common stock in the January 2021 public offering 
of common stock representing an aggregate offering price of 
approximately $108  million, acted as a sales agent with 
respect to up to a $300  million aggregate offering price of 
shares of common stock in the March through May 2021 “at-
the-market” offering, underwrote 1,600,000 depositary shares 
in the July 2021 public offering representing an aggregate 
offering price of approximately $40 million, and underwrote 
1,375,397 shares of common stock in the December 2021 
public offering of common stock representing an aggregate 
offering price of approximately $199  million. On July 10, 
2023, the defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated 
amended complaint. On September 17, 2024, Silvergate and 
two affiliates filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy petitions in the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
F45 Training Holdings Inc. GS&Co. is among the 
underwriters named as defendants in an amended complaint 
for a putative securities class action filed on May 19, 2023 in 
the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas 
relating to F45 Training Holdings Inc.’s (F45) approximately 
$350  million July 2021 initial public offering of common 
stock. In addition to the underwriters, the defendants include 
F45, certain of its officers and directors and certain of its 
shareholders. GS&Co. acted as a qualified independent 
underwriter for the offering and underwrote 8,303,744 shares 
of common stock representing an aggregate offering price of 
approximately $133  million. On August 7, 2023, the 
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. 
On January 25, 2024, the plaintiffs filed a second amended 
complaint, and on March 11, 2024, the defendants moved to 
dismiss the second amended complaint.
Olaplex Holdings, Inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters 
named as defendants in a putative securities class action filed 
on April 28, 2023 in the U.S. District Court for the Central 
District of California relating to Olaplex Holdings, Inc.’s 
(Olaplex) approximately $1.8  billion September 2021 initial 
public offering of common stock. In addition to the 
underwriters, the defendants include Olaplex, certain of its 
officers and directors and selling shareholders. GS&Co. 
underwrote 19,419,420 shares of common stock representing 
an aggregate offering price of approximately $408  million. 
On June 22, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a revised consolidated 
complaint, and on February 7, 2025, the court granted in part 
and denied in part the defendants’ motions to dismiss the 
revised consolidated complaint, resulting in the dismissal of 
all claims against the underwriter defendants, including 
GS&Co.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
226
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
agilon health, inc. GS&Co. is among the underwriters 
named as defendants in putative securities class actions filed 
beginning on March 19, 2024 and consolidated in the U.S. 
District Court for the Western District of Texas, relating to 
agilon health, inc.’s (agilon) approximately $1.2 billion April 
2021 initial public offering, approximately $587  million 
September 2021 secondary equity offering and approximately 
$1.8 billion May 2023 secondary equity offering. In addition 
to the underwriters, the defendants include agilon, certain of 
its officers and directors and certain of its shareholders. 
GS&Co. underwrote 10,631,949 shares of common stock in 
the April 2021 initial public offering representing an 
aggregate offering price of approximately $245  million, 
3,759,588 shares of common stock in the September 2021 
secondary equity offering representing an aggregate offering 
price of approximately $113 million and 26,879,772 shares of 
common stock in the May 2023 secondary equity offering, of 
which 
2,731,638 
shares 
were 
purchased 
by 
agilon, 
representing an aggregate offering price of approximately 
$519 million sold to third parties. On September 6, 2024, the 
plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint, and on November 8, 
2024, the defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated 
complaint.
Investment Management Services 
Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates are parties to various 
civil litigation and arbitration proceedings and other disputes 
with clients relating to losses allegedly sustained as a result of 
the firm’s investment management services. These claims 
generally seek, among other things, restitution or other 
compensatory damages and, in some cases, punitive damages. 
Variable Rate Demand Obligations Antitrust Litigation 
Group Inc. and GS&Co. were among the defendants named 
in a putative class action relating to variable rate demand 
obligations (VRDOs), filed beginning in February 2019 under 
separate complaints and consolidated in the U.S. District 
Court for the Southern District of New York. The 
consolidated amended complaint, filed on May 31, 2019, 
generally asserts claims under federal antitrust law and state 
common law in connection with an alleged conspiracy among 
the defendants to manipulate the market for VRDOs. The 
complaint seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as 
unspecified amounts of compensatory, treble and other 
damages. Group Inc. was voluntarily dismissed from the 
putative class action on June 3, 2019. On November 2, 2020, 
the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants’ 
motion to dismiss, dismissing the state common law claims 
against GS&Co., but denying dismissal of the federal 
antitrust law claims. 
GS&Co. is also among the defendants named in a related 
putative class action filed on June 2, 2021 in the U.S. District 
Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint 
alleges the same conspiracy in the market for VRDOs as that 
alleged in the consolidated amended complaint filed on May 
31, 2019, and asserts federal antitrust law, state law and state 
common law claims against the defendants. The complaint 
seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as unspecified 
amounts of compensatory, treble and other damages. On 
August 6, 2021, plaintiffs in the May 31, 2019 action filed an 
amended complaint consolidating the June 2, 2021 action 
with the May 31, 2019 action. On September 14, 2021, 
defendants filed a joint partial motion to dismiss the August 
6, 2021 amended consolidated complaint. On June 28, 2022, 
the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants’ 
motion to dismiss, dismissing the state breach of fiduciary 
duty claim against GS&Co., but declining to dismiss any 
portion of the federal antitrust law claims. On September 21, 
2023, the court granted the plaintiffs’ motion for class 
certification. On February 5, 2024, the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit granted the defendants’ petition 
seeking interlocutory review of the district court’s grant of 
class certification. On February 15, 2024, the district court 
granted the defendants’ request to stay the proceedings 
pending their appeal of the district court’s grant of class 
certification.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
227
Interest Rate Swap Antitrust Litigation 
Group Inc., GS&Co., GSI, GS Bank USA and Goldman Sachs 
Financial Markets, L.P. are among the defendants named in a 
putative antitrust class action relating to the trading of 
interest rate swaps, filed in November 2015 and consolidated 
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New 
York. The same Goldman Sachs entities are also among the 
defendants named in two antitrust actions relating to the 
trading of interest rate swaps, commenced in April 2016 and 
June 2018, respectively, in the U.S. District Court for the 
Southern District of New York by three operators of swap 
execution facilities and certain of their affiliates. These 
actions have been consolidated for pretrial proceedings. The 
complaints generally assert claims under federal antitrust law 
and state common law in connection with an alleged 
conspiracy among the defendants to preclude exchange 
trading of interest rate swaps. The complaints in the 
individual actions also assert claims under state antitrust law. 
The complaints seek declaratory and injunctive relief, as well 
as treble damages in an unspecified amount. Defendants 
moved to dismiss the class and the first individual action and 
the district court dismissed the state common law claims 
asserted by the plaintiffs in the first individual action and 
otherwise limited the state common law claim in the putative 
class action and the antitrust claims in both actions to the 
period from 2013 to 2016. On November 20, 2018, the court 
granted in part and denied in part the defendants’ motion to 
dismiss the second individual action, dismissing the state 
common law claims for unjust enrichment and tortious 
interference, but denying dismissal of the federal and state 
antitrust claims. On March 13, 2019, the court denied the 
plaintiffs’ motion in the putative class action to amend their 
complaint to add allegations related to conduct from 2008 to 
2012, but granted the motion to add limited allegations from 
2013 to 2016, which the plaintiffs added in a fourth 
consolidated amended complaint filed on March 22, 2019. 
On December 15, 2023, the court denied the plaintiffs’ 
motion for class certification, and on December 28, 2023, the 
plaintiffs filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for 
the Second Circuit seeking interlocutory review of the district 
court’s denial of class certification. On July 11, 2024, the 
court preliminarily approved a settlement among the 
plaintiffs and certain defendants, including the firm, to 
resolve the class action. The firm has paid the full amount of 
its proposed contribution to the settlement into an escrow 
account. The individual actions remain pending.
Commodities-Related Litigation 
GSI is among the defendants named in putative class actions 
relating to trading in platinum and palladium, filed beginning 
on November 25, 2014 and most recently amended on May 
15, 2017, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District 
of New York. The amended complaint generally alleges that 
the defendants violated federal antitrust laws and the 
Commodity Exchange Act in connection with an alleged 
conspiracy to manipulate a benchmark for physical platinum 
and palladium prices and seek declaratory and injunctive 
relief, as well as treble damages in an unspecified amount. On 
March 29, 2020, the court granted the defendants’ motions to 
dismiss and for reconsideration, resulting in the dismissal of 
all claims, and on February 27, 2023, the U.S. Court of 
Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the district court’s 
dismissal of certain plaintiffs’ antitrust claims and vacated 
the district court’s dismissal of the plaintiffs’ Commodity 
Exchange Act claim. On April 12, 2023, the defendants’ 
petition for rehearing or rehearing en banc with the U.S. 
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit was denied. On July 
21, 2023, the defendants filed a motion for judgment on the 
pleadings. On January 17, 2025, the court approved a 
settlement to resolve this action. The firm has paid the full 
amount of its contribution to the settlement.
Corporate Bonds Antitrust Litigation 
Group Inc. and GS&Co. are among the dealers named as 
defendants in a putative class action relating to the secondary 
market for odd-lot corporate bonds, filed on April 21, 2020 in 
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New 
York. The amended consolidated complaint, filed on 
October 29, 2020, asserts claims under federal antitrust law 
in connection with alleged anti-competitive conduct by the 
defendants in the secondary market for odd-lots of corporate 
bonds, and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as 
unspecified monetary damages, including treble and punitive 
damages and restitution. On October 25, 2021, the court 
granted defendants’ motion to dismiss with prejudice. On 
November 10, 2022, the district court denied the plaintiffs’ 
motion for an indicative ruling that the judgment should be 
vacated because the wife of the district judge owned stock in 
one of the defendants and the district judge did not recuse 
himself. On July 2, 2024, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Second Circuit vacated the district court’s dismissal and 
remanded the case for further proceedings. On September 3, 
2024, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, and on 
October 18, 2024, the defendants moved to dismiss the 
second amended complaint.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
228
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Credit Default Swap Antitrust Litigation 
Group Inc., GS&Co. and GSI were among the defendants 
named in a putative antitrust class action relating to the 
settlement of credit default swaps, filed on June 30, 2021 in 
the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico. The 
complaint generally asserts claims under federal antitrust law 
and the Commodity Exchange Act in connection with an 
alleged conspiracy among the defendants to manipulate the 
benchmark price used to value credit default swaps for 
settlement. The complaint also asserts a claim for unjust 
enrichment under state common law. The complaint seeks 
declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as unspecified 
amounts of treble and other damages. On November 15, 
2021, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On February 4, 2022, the plaintiffs filed an amended 
complaint and voluntarily dismissed Group Inc. from the 
action. On June 5, 2023, the court dismissed the claims 
against certain foreign defendants for lack of personal 
jurisdiction but denied the defendants’ motion to dismiss 
with respect to GS&Co., GSI and the remaining defendants. 
On January 24, 2024, the court granted the defendants’ 
motion to stay the proceedings pending the resolution of the 
motion filed by the defendants on November 3, 2023 in the 
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to 
enforce a 2015 settlement and release among the parties. On 
January 26, 2024, the U.S. District Court for the Southern 
District of New York granted the defendants’ motion to 
enforce the settlement and release and enjoined the plaintiffs 
from pursuing any claims against the defendants in the New 
Mexico action for any alleged violation of law based on 
conduct before June 30, 2014, and on February 23, 2024, the 
plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Second Circuit.
Consumer Investigation and Review
The firm has been cooperating with the CFPB and other 
governmental bodies relating to investigations and/or 
inquiries concerning GS Bank USA’s credit card account 
management 
practices 
and 
is 
providing 
information 
regarding 
the 
application 
of 
refunds, 
crediting 
of 
nonconforming 
payments, 
billing 
error 
resolution, 
advertisements, reporting to credit bureaus, and any other 
consumer-related information requested by them, and GS 
Bank USA has entered into a consent order, without 
admitting or denying the findings, to resolve the CFPB’s 
investigation. The consent order requires a $45  million 
penalty, approximately $20 million in restitution (to be offset 
by restitution GS Bank USA has already provided to 
consumers), and certain non-monetary remedial measures. 
The firm has paid the full amount of the settlement.
Regulatory Investigations and Reviews and Related 
Litigation
Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates are subject to a number 
of other investigations and reviews by, and, in some cases, 
have received subpoenas and requests for documents and 
information from, various governmental and regulatory 
bodies and self-regulatory organizations and litigation and 
shareholder requests relating to various matters relating to 
the firm’s businesses and operations, including: 
• The securities offering process and underwriting practices; 
• The firm’s investment management and financial advisory 
services; 
• Conflicts of interest; 
• Research practices, including research independence and 
interactions between research analysts and other firm 
personnel, including investment banking personnel, as well 
as third parties; 
• Transactions involving government-related financings and 
other matters, municipal securities, including wall-cross 
procedures and conflict of interest disclosure with respect 
to state and municipal clients, the trading and structuring 
of municipal derivative instruments in connection with 
municipal offerings, political contribution rules, municipal 
advisory services and the possible impact of credit default 
swap transactions on municipal issuers; 
• Consumer lending, as well as residential mortgage lending, 
servicing and securitization, and compliance with related 
consumer laws; 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
229
• The offering, auction, sales, trading and clearance of 
corporate 
and 
government 
securities, 
currencies, 
commodities and other financial products and related sales 
and other communications and activities, as well as the 
firm’s supervision and controls relating to such activities, 
including compliance with applicable short sale rules, 
algorithmic, high-frequency and quantitative trading, the 
firm’s U.S. alternative trading system (dark pool), futures 
trading, options trading, when-issued trading, transaction 
and regulatory reporting, technology systems and controls, 
communications recordkeeping and recording, securities 
lending practices, prime brokerage activities, trading and 
clearance of credit derivative instruments and interest rate 
swaps, commodities activities and metals storage, private 
placement practices, allocations of and trading in 
securities, and trading activities and communications in 
connection with the establishment of benchmark rates, 
such as currency rates;
• Compliance with the FCPA;
• The firm’s hiring and compensation practices;
• The firm’s system of risk management and controls; and
• Insider trading, the potential misuse and dissemination of 
material nonpublic information regarding corporate and 
governmental developments and the effectiveness of the 
firm’s insider trading controls and information barriers.
The firm is cooperating with all such governmental and 
regulatory investigations and reviews.
Note 28.  
Employee Benefit Plans
The firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other 
postretirement benefit plans, primarily healthcare and life 
insurance. The firm also provides certain benefits to former 
or inactive employees prior to retirement. 
Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Postretirement 
Plans
Employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries participate in 
various defined benefit pension plans. These plans generally 
provide benefits based on years of credited service and a 
percentage of eligible compensation. The firm maintains a 
defined benefit pension plan for certain U.K. employees. As 
of April 2008, the U.K. defined benefit plan was closed to 
new participants and frozen for existing participants as of 
March 31, 2016. The non-U.S. plans do not have a material 
impact on the firm’s consolidated results of operations. 
The firm also maintains a defined benefit pension plan for 
substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to November 1, 
2003. As of November 2004, this plan was closed to new 
participants and frozen for existing participants. In addition, 
the firm maintains unfunded postretirement benefit plans 
that provide medical and life insurance for eligible retirees 
and their dependents covered under these programs. These 
plans do not have a material impact on the firm’s 
consolidated results of operations.
The firm recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit 
pension and postretirement plans, measured as the difference 
between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit 
obligation, in the consolidated balance sheets. As of 
December 2024, other assets included $73 million (related to 
overfunded pension plans) and other liabilities included 
$344  million related to these plans. As of December 2023, 
other assets included $93  million (related to overfunded 
pension plans) and other liabilities included $449  million 
related to these plans. 
Defined Contribution Plans
The firm contributes to employer-sponsored U.S. and non-
U.S. defined contribution plans. The firm’s contribution to 
these plans was $382 million for 2024, $377 million for 2023 
and $378 million for 2022.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
230
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 29.  
Employee Incentive Plans
The cost of employee services received in exchange for a 
share-based award is generally measured based on the grant-
date fair value of the award. Share-based awards that do not 
require future service (i.e., vested awards, including awards 
granted to retirement-eligible employees) are expensed 
immediately. Share-based awards that require future service 
are amortized over the relevant service period. Forfeitures are 
recorded when they occur. 
Cash dividend equivalents paid on RSUs are generally 
charged to retained earnings. If RSUs that require future 
service are forfeited, the related dividend equivalents 
originally charged to retained earnings are reclassified to 
compensation expense in the period in which forfeiture 
occurs.
The firm generally issues new shares of common stock upon 
delivery of share-based awards. In limited cases, as outlined 
in the applicable award agreements, the firm may cash settle 
share-based awards accounted for as equity instruments. For 
these awards, additional paid-in capital is adjusted to the 
extent of the difference between the value of the award at the 
time of cash settlement and the grant-date value of the 
award. The tax effect related to the settlement of share-based 
awards and payments of dividend equivalents is recorded in 
income tax benefit or expense. 
Stock Incentive Plan
The firm sponsors a stock incentive plan, The Goldman 
Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (2021) 
(2021 SIP), which provides for grants of RSUs, restricted 
stock, dividend equivalent rights, incentive stock options, 
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, and 
other share-based awards, each of which may be subject to 
terms and conditions, including performance or market 
conditions. On April 29, 2021, shareholders approved the 
2021 SIP. The 2021 SIP is a successor to several predecessor 
stock incentive plans, the first of which was adopted on April 
30, 1999, and each of which was approved by the firm’s 
shareholders.
As of December 2024, 55.7 million shares were available to be 
delivered pursuant to awards granted under the 2021 SIP. If 
any shares of common stock underlying awards granted 
under the 2021 SIP or awards granted under predecessor 
stock incentive plans are not delivered because such awards 
are forfeited, terminated or canceled, or if shares of common 
stock underlying such awards are surrendered or withheld to 
satisfy any obligation of the grantee (including taxes), those 
shares will become available to be delivered pursuant to 
awards granted under the 2021 SIP. Shares available to be 
delivered under the 2021 SIP also are subject to adjustment 
for certain events or changes in corporate structure as 
provided under the 2021 SIP. The 2021 SIP is scheduled to 
terminate on the date of the 2025 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders.
Restricted Stock Units 
The firm grants RSUs (including RSUs subject to 
performance or market conditions) to employees, which are 
generally valued based on the closing price of the underlying 
shares on the date of grant, after taking into account a 
liquidity discount for any applicable post-vesting and delivery 
transfer restrictions. The value of equity awards also 
considers the impact of material non-public information, if 
any, that the firm expects to make available shortly following 
grant. RSUs not subject to performance or market conditions 
generally vest and underlying shares of common stock are 
delivered (net of required withholding tax) over a three-year 
period as outlined in the applicable award agreements. 
Award agreements generally provide that vesting is 
accelerated in certain circumstances, such as on retirement, 
death, disability and, in certain cases, conflicted employment. 
Delivery of the underlying shares of common stock is 
conditioned on the grantees satisfying certain vesting and 
other requirements outlined in the award agreements. 
RSUs that are subject to performance or market conditions 
generally are settled after the end of a three- to five-year 
period. For awards that are subject to performance or market 
conditions, generally the final award is adjusted from zero up 
to 150% of the original grant based on the extent to which 
those conditions are satisfied. Dividend equivalents that 
accrue on these awards are paid when the awards settle. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
231
The table below presents the 2024 activity related to stock 
settled RSUs.
Weighted Average
Grant-Date Fair Value of
Restricted Stock
Restricted Stock
Units Outstanding
Units Outstanding
Future
No Future
Future
No Future
 
Service
Service
Service
Service
Required
Required
Required
Required
Beginning balance
 4,379,141  15,306,921 
$ 
310.31 $ 304.37 
Granted
 2,795,500  4,302,501 
$ 
381.27 $ 354.89 
Forfeited
 
(585,760)  
(418,815) $ 
291.64 $ 321.77 
Delivered
 
–  (8,502,057) $ 
– $ 301.08 
Vested
 (3,103,014)  3,103,014 
$ 
339.86 $ 339.86 
Ending balance
 3,485,867  13,791,564 
$ 
344.05 $ 329.61 
In the table above:
• The weighted average grant-date fair value of RSUs 
granted was $365.28 during 2024, $329.23 during 2023 and 
$316.98 during 2022. The grant-date fair value of these 
RSUs included an average liquidity discount of 3.9% 
during 2024, 4.5% during 2023 and 6.0% during 2022, to 
reflect post-vesting and delivery transfer restrictions, 
generally of 1 year for each of 2024, 2023 and 2022. In 
addition, delivered RSUs include RSUs that have been 
settled in cash.
• The aggregate fair value of awards that vested was $3.15 
billion during 2024, $2.47  billion during 2023 and 
$3.91 billion during 2022.
• The ending balance included restricted stock subject to 
future service requirements of 4,579 shares as of December 
2024 and 347,240 shares as of December 2023.  
• The ending balance included RSUs subject to future service 
requirements and performance or market conditions of 
466,731 RSUs as of December 2024 and 617,655 RSUs as of 
December 2023, and the maximum amount of such RSUs 
that may be earned was 700,097 RSUs as of December 2024 
and 913,551 RSUs as of December 2023.
• The ending balance also included RSUs not subject to 
future service requirements but subject to performance 
conditions of 1,587,795 RSUs as of December 2024 and 
1,620,470 RSUs as of December 2023, and the maximum 
amount of such RSUs that may be earned was 2,381,693 
RSUs as of December 2024 and 2,430,705 RSUs as of 
December 2023.
In relation to 2024 year-end, during the first quarter of 2025, 
the firm granted to its employees 5.0 million RSUs (of which 
1.5  million RSUs require future service as a condition for 
delivery of the related shares of common stock). These RSUs 
are subject to additional conditions as outlined in the award 
agreements. Shares underlying these RSUs, net of required 
withholding tax, generally are delivered over a three-year 
period and are generally subject to a one-year post-vesting 
and delivery transfer restriction. These awards are not 
included in the table above.
As of December 2024, there was $630  million of total 
unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested share-
based awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a 
weighted average period of 1.70 years. In addition, there is 
unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based 
awards subject to performance conditions. The maximum 
payout related to these awards is $299 million. This cost is 
expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 
0.65 years.
The table below presents the share-based compensation and 
the related excess tax benefit.
 
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Share-based compensation
$ 2,772 $ 2,098 $ 4,107 
Excess net tax benefit for share-based awards
$ 
213 $ 
198 $ 
324 
In the table above, excess net tax benefit for share-based 
awards includes the net tax benefit on dividend equivalents 
paid on RSUs and the delivery of common stock underlying 
share-based awards. 
Overrides
The firm shares a portion of its overrides related to 
investment management services with approximately 900 
employees, including with the firm’s executive officers. The 
fair value of these overrides is recognized as compensation 
expense over the vesting period. Such expense was 
$376 million for 2024, $407 million for 2023 and $493 million 
for 2022.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
232
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Note 30.  
Parent Company
Group Inc. – Condensed Statements of Earnings
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Revenues
Dividends from subsidiaries and other affiliates:
Bank
$ 
62 $ 
58 $ 
101 
Nonbank
 9,021  11,499  
6,243 
Other revenues
 (1,214)  (1,965)  (3,590) 
Total non-interest revenues
 7,869  9,592  
2,754 
Interest income
 20,533  18,839  
8,367 
Interest expense
 23,527  21,479  
9,428 
Net interest loss
 (2,994)  (2,640)  (1,061) 
Total net revenues
 4,875  6,952  
1,693 
Operating expenses
Compensation and benefits
 
676  
287  
328 
Other expenses
 
693  
219  
685 
Total operating expenses
 1,369  
506  
1,013 
Pre-tax earnings
 3,506  6,446  
680 
Benefit for taxes
 (1,617)  (1,070)  (1,398) 
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries
and other affiliates
 9,153  1,000  
9,183 
Net earnings
 14,276  8,516  11,261 
Preferred stock dividends
 
751  
609  
497 
Net earnings applicable to common shareholders
$ 13,525 $ 7,907 $ 10,764 
Supplemental Disclosures:
In the condensed statements of earnings above, revenues and 
expenses included the following with subsidiaries and other 
affiliates:
• Dividends from bank subsidiaries included cash dividends 
of $62 million for 2024, $58 million for 2023 and $97 
million for 2022.
• Dividends from nonbank subsidiaries and other affiliates 
included cash dividends of $9.02 billion for 2024, $11.49 
billion for 2023 and $6.14 billion for 2022.
• Other revenues included $(1.72) billion for 2024, $(892) 
million for 2023 and $(3.34) billion for 2022.
• Interest income included $17.65 billion for 2024, $16.82 
billion for 2023 and $7.47 billion for 2022.
• Interest expense included $11.91 billion for 2024, $9.94 
billion for 2023 and $3.80 billion for 2022.
• Other expenses included $104 million for 2024, $105 
million for 2023 and $116 million for 2022.
Group Inc.’s other comprehensive income/(loss) was $216 
million for 2024, $92 million for 2023 and $(942) million for 
2022.
Group Inc. – Condensed Balance Sheets
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents:
With third-party banks
$ 
19 $ 
35 
With subsidiary bank
 
2  
7 
Loans to and receivables from subsidiaries:
Bank
 
5,738  
1,833 
Nonbank ($15,494 and $4,813 at fair value)
 282,580  286,688 
Investments in subsidiaries and other affiliates:
Bank
 
63,427  
55,164 
Nonbank
 
77,362  
78,591 
Trading assets (at fair value)
 
438  
3,197 
Investments ($35,205 and $22,443 at fair value)
 
80,697  
79,300 
Other assets
 
8,300  
7,408 
Total assets
$ 518,563 $ 512,223 
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Repurchase agreements with subsidiaries (at fair value)
$ 78,145 $ 78,776 
Secured borrowings with subsidiaries
 
28,151  
19,233 
Payables to subsidiaries
 
1,803  
568 
Trading liabilities (at fair value)
 
1,107  
898 
Unsecured short-term borrowings:
With third parties ($4,583 and $4,721 at fair value)
 
22,409  
31,833 
With subsidiaries
 
3,526  
5,710 
Unsecured long-term borrowings:
With third parties ($29,051 and $28,966 at fair value)
 167,523  175,335 
With subsidiaries
 
89,883  
79,316 
Other liabilities
 
4,020  
3,649 
Total liabilities
 396,567  395,318 
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees
Shareholders' equity
Preferred stock
 
13,253  
11,203 
Common stock
 
9  
9 
Share-based awards
 
5,148  
5,121 
Additional paid-in capital
 
61,376  
60,247 
Retained earnings
 153,412  143,688 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
(2,702)  
(2,918) 
Stock held in treasury, at cost
 (108,500)  (100,445) 
Total shareholders’ equity
 121,996  116,905 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
$ 518,563 $ 512,223 
Supplemental Disclosures:
Goldman Sachs Funding LLC, a wholly-owned, direct 
subsidiary of Group Inc., has provided Group Inc. with a 
committed line of credit that allows Group Inc. to draw 
sufficient funds to meet its cash needs in the ordinary course 
of business. 
Trading assets included derivative contracts with subsidiaries 
of $261 million as of December 2024 and $155 million as of 
December 2023.
Trading liabilities included derivative contracts with 
subsidiaries of $1.11 billion as of December 2024 and $898 
million as of December 2023.
As of December 2024, unsecured long-term borrowings with 
subsidiaries by maturity date are $87.66 billion in 2026, $160 
million in 2027, $224 million in 2028, $243 million in 2029 
and $1.60 billion in 2030-thereafter.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
233
Group Inc. – Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings
$ 14,276 $ 8,516 $ 11,261 
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net
cash provided by operating activities:
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
and other affiliates
 (9,153)  (1,000)  (9,183) 
Depreciation and amortization
 
25  
13  
9 
Deferred income taxes
 
(844)  
(380)  (1,523) 
Share-based compensation
 
361  
(11)  
378 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Collateralized transactions (excluding 
secured borrowings, net)
 
(631)  11,937  66,839 
Trading assets
 
3,685  7,620  (23,451) 
Trading liabilities
 
209  (1,646)  1,428 
Other, net
 
5,090  
(221)  5,933 
Net cash provided by operating activities
 13,018  24,828  51,691 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, leasehold
improvements and equipment
 
(55)  
(48)  
(64) 
Repayments/(issuances) of short-term loans
to subsidiaries, net
 
9,578  3,145  2,210 
Issuance of term loans to subsidiaries
 (22,275)  (25,473)  (1,859) 
Repayments of term loans by subsidiaries
 12,626  
921  2,311 
Purchase of investments
 (30,473)  (25,904)  (47,247) 
Sales/paydowns of investments
 30,239  17,801  3,162 
Capital distributions from/(contributions to) 
subsidiaries, net
 
127  1,205  (5,665) 
Net cash used for investing activities
 
(233)  (28,353)  (47,152) 
Cash flows from financing activities
Secured borrowings with subsidiary, net
 
8,518  3,810  (36,389) 
Unsecured short-term borrowings, net:
With third parties
 
(54)  
87  
13 
With subsidiaries
 
8,152  19,314  27,803 
Issuance of unsecured long-term borrowings
 77,389  127,728  78,803 
Repayment of unsecured long-term borrowings
 (94,943)  (136,618)  (65,960) 
Preferred stock redemption
 (2,200)  (1,000)  
– 
Common stock repurchased
 (8,000)  (5,796)  (3,500) 
Settlement of share-based awards in
satisfaction of withholding tax requirements
 (1,331)  (1,345)  (1,595) 
Dividends and dividend equivalents paid on
stock and share-based awards
 (4,497)  (4,189)  (3,682) 
Issuance of preferred stock, net of costs
 
4,239  1,496  
– 
Other financing, net
 
(79)  
(1)  
– 
Net cash provided by/(used for) financing activities
 (12,806)  3,486  (4,507) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
(21)  
(39)  
32 
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning balance
 
42  
81  
49 
Cash and cash equivalents, ending balance
$ 
21 $ 
42 $ 
81 
Supplemental Disclosures:
Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, were 
$22.43 billion for 2024, $20.53 billion for 2023 and $8.54 
billion for 2022, and included $11.60 billion for 2024, $9.40 
billion for 2023 and $3.55 billion for 2022 of payments to 
subsidiaries. 
Cash payments for income taxes, net, were $1.29 billion for 
2024, $671 million for 2023 and $2.59 billion for 2022.
There were no material non-cash activities during the year 
ended December 2024.
Non-cash activities during the year ended December 2023:
• Group Inc. exchanged $1.42 billion of equity investment in 
its wholly-owned subsidiaries for loans.
Non-cash activities during the year ended December 2022:
• Group Inc. issued $1.75 billion of equity in connection with 
the acquisition of GreenSky. Upon closing of the 
transaction, GreenSky became a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of GS Bank USA.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
234
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Common Stock Performance
The graph and table below compare the performance of an 
investment in the firm’s common stock from December 31, 
2019 (the last trading day before the firm’s 2020 fiscal year) 
through December 31, 2024, with the S&P 500 Index (S&P 
500) and the S&P 500 Financials Index (S&P 500 Financials). 
As of December
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Group Inc.
$ 100.00 $ 117.48 $ 173.39 $ 159.76 $ 185.18 $ 281.53 
S&P 500
$ 100.00 $ 118.39 $ 152.34 $ 124.72 $ 157.48 $ 196.85 
S&P 500 Financials $ 100.00 $ 98.24 $ 132.50 $ 118.49 $ 132.83 $ 173.34 
The graph and table above assume $100 was invested on 
December 31, 2019 in each of the firm’s common stock, the 
S&P 500 and the S&P 500 Financials, and the dividends were 
reinvested without payment of any commissions. The 
performance shown represents past performance and should 
not be considered an indication of future performance.
Statistical Disclosures
Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ 
Equity
The tables below present information about average 
balances, interest and average interest rates.
Average Balance for the
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Assets
U.S.
$ 
110,144 
$ 129,718 $ 
151,152 
Non-U.S.
 
96,783 
 127,250  
107,843 
Deposits with banks
 
206,927 
 256,968  
258,995 
U.S.
 
242,469 
 214,772  
241,968 
Non-U.S.
 
148,594 
 158,347  
169,621 
Collateralized agreements
 
391,063 
 373,119  
411,589 
U.S.
 
288,793 
 205,013  
165,331 
Non-U.S.
 
196,305 
 146,655  
123,332 
Trading assets
 
485,098 
 351,668  
288,663 
U.S.
 
151,248 
 123,828  
97,221 
Non-U.S.
 
14,625 
 
15,003  
14,696 
Investments
 
165,873 
 138,831  
111,917 
U.S.
 
168,198 
 156,349  
144,781 
Non-U.S.
 
16,514 
 
19,112  
22,067 
Loans
 
184,712 
 175,461  
166,848 
U.S.
 
81,030 
 
85,373  
95,513 
Non-U.S.
 
57,549 
 
55,043  
64,301 
Other interest-earning assets
 
138,579  
140,416  
159,814 
Interest-earning assets
 1,572,252  
1,436,463  
1,397,826 
Cash and due from banks
 
5,681 
 
6,372  
7,715 
Other non-interest-earning assets
 
100,915 
 
109,042  
137,418 
Assets
$ 1,678,848 $ 1,551,877 $ 1,542,959 
Liabilities
U.S.
$ 
332,750 $ 
307,686 $ 
302,678 
Non-U.S.
 
96,184  
82,321  
74,662 
Interest-bearing deposits
 
428,934  
390,007  
377,340 
U.S.
 
202,997  
154,341  
107,008 
Non-U.S.
 
113,693  
93,697  
83,783 
Collateralized financings
 
316,690  
248,038  
190,791 
U.S.
 
58,696  
62,254  
80,950 
Non-U.S.
 
79,147  
76,057  
83,657 
Trading liabilities
 
137,843  
138,311  
164,607 
U.S.
 
52,398  
47,878  
34,322 
Non-U.S.
 
35,746  
27,166  
28,675 
Short-term borrowings
 
88,144  
75,044  
62,997 
U.S.
 
193,173  
197,442  
221,598 
Non-U.S.
 
54,435  
45,611  
37,656 
Long-term borrowings
 
247,608  
243,053  
259,254 
U.S.
 
145,407  
149,883  
166,200 
Non-U.S.
 
88,223  
94,915  
98,130 
Other interest-bearing liabilities
 
233,630  
244,798  
264,330 
Interest-bearing liabilities
 1,452,849  
1,339,251  
1,319,319 
Non-interest-bearing deposits
 
5,029  
4,733  
4,811 
Other non-interest-bearing liabilities
 
101,766  
91,194  
102,839 
Liabilities
 1,559,644  
1,435,178  
1,426,969 
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock
 
12,430  
10,895  
10,703 
Common stock
 
106,774  
105,804  
105,287 
Shareholders’ equity
 
119,204  
116,699  
115,990 
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
$ 1,678,848 $ 1,551,877 $ 1,542,959 
Percentage attributable to non-U.S. operations
Interest-earning assets
 33.73% 
 36.30% 
 35.90% 
Interest-bearing liabilities
 32.17% 
 31.34% 
 30.82% 
 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Supplemental Financial Information
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
235
Interest for the
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
2022
Assets
U.S.
$ 
5,861 $ 
7,074 $ 2,793 
Non-U.S.
 
3,421  
3,875  
440 
Deposits with banks
 
9,282  
10,949  
3,233 
U.S.
 
13,947  
11,301  
3,463 
Non-U.S.
 
5,948  
5,104  
1,005 
Collateralized agreements
 
19,895  
16,405  
4,468 
U.S.
 
9,459  
5,717  
3,362 
Non-U.S.
 
4,857  
2,743  
1,725 
Trading assets
 
14,316  
8,460  
5,087 
U.S.
 
5,333  
3,055  
1,656 
Non-U.S.
 
665  
801  
543 
Investments
 
5,998  
3,856  
2,199 
U.S.
 
14,814  
13,332  
7,967 
Non-U.S.
 
1,348  
1,573  
1,092 
Loans
 
16,162  
14,905  
9,059 
U.S.
 
9,431  
8,266  
3,236 
Non-U.S.
 
6,313  
5,674  
1,742 
Other interest-earning assets
 
15,744  
13,940  
4,978 
Interest-earning assets
$ 81,397 $ 68,515 $ 29,024 
Liabilities
U.S.
$ 15,800 $ 13,658 $ 4,959 
Non-U.S.
 
4,482  
3,352  
864 
Interest-bearing deposits
 
20,282  
17,010  
5,823 
U.S.
 
11,953  
8,750  
2,027 
Non-U.S.
 
5,409  
3,955  
781 
Collateralized financings
 
17,362  
12,705  
2,808 
U.S.
 
1,319  
969  
872 
Non-U.S.
 
1,592  
1,484  
1,051 
Trading liabilities
 
2,911  
2,453  
1,923 
U.S.
 
1,745  
1,200  
408 
Non-U.S.
 
367  
122  
133 
Short-term borrowings
 
2,112  
1,322  
541 
U.S.
 
10,728  
10,838  
5,570 
Non-U.S.
 
282  
246  
146 
Long-term borrowings
 
11,010  
11,084  
5,716 
U.S.
 
11,870  
11,228  
2,356 
Non-U.S.
 
7,794  
6,362  
2,179 
Other interest-bearing liabilities
 
19,664  
17,590  
4,535 
Interest-bearing liabilities
$ 73,341 $ 62,164 $ 21,346 
Net interest income
U.S.
$ 
5,430 $ 
2,102 $ 6,285 
Non-U.S.
 
2,626  
4,249  
1,393 
Net interest income
$ 
8,056 $ 
6,351 $ 7,678 
Average Rate for the
Year Ended December
2024
2023
2022
Assets
U.S.
 5.32% 
 5.45% 
 1.85% 
Non-U.S.
 3.53% 
 3.05% 
 0.41% 
Deposits with banks
 4.49% 
 4.26% 
 1.25% 
U.S.
 5.75% 
 5.26% 
 1.43% 
Non-U.S.
 4.00% 
 3.22% 
 0.59% 
Collateralized agreements
 5.09% 
 4.40% 
 1.09% 
U.S.
 3.28% 
 2.79% 
 2.03% 
Non-U.S.
 2.47% 
 1.87% 
 1.40% 
Trading assets
 2.95% 
 2.41% 
 1.76% 
U.S.
 3.53% 
 2.47% 
 1.70% 
Non-U.S.
 4.55% 
 5.34% 
 3.69% 
Investments
 3.62% 
 2.78% 
 1.96% 
U.S.
 8.81% 
 8.53% 
 5.50% 
Non-U.S.
 8.16% 
 8.23% 
 4.95% 
Loans
 8.75% 
 8.49% 
 5.43% 
U.S.
 11.64% 
 9.68% 
 3.39% 
Non-U.S.
 10.97% 
 10.31% 
 2.71% 
Other interest-earning assets
 11.36% 
 9.93% 
 3.11% 
Interest-earning assets
 5.18% 
 4.77% 
 2.08% 
Liabilities
U.S.
 4.75% 
 4.44% 
 1.64% 
Non-U.S.
 4.66% 
 4.07% 
 1.16% 
Interest-bearing deposits
 4.73% 
 4.36% 
 1.54% 
U.S.
 5.89% 
 5.67% 
 1.89% 
Non-U.S.
 4.76% 
 4.22% 
 0.93% 
Collateralized financings
 5.48% 
 5.12% 
 1.47% 
U.S.
 2.25% 
 1.56% 
 1.08% 
Non-U.S.
 2.01% 
 1.95% 
 1.26% 
Trading liabilities
 2.11% 
 1.77% 
 1.17% 
U.S.
 3.33% 
 2.51% 
 1.19% 
Non-U.S.
 1.03% 
 0.45% 
 0.46% 
Short-term borrowings
 2.40% 
 1.76% 
 0.86% 
U.S.
 5.55% 
 5.49% 
 2.51% 
Non-U.S.
 0.52% 
 0.54% 
 0.39% 
Long-term borrowings
 4.45% 
 4.56% 
 2.20% 
U.S.
 8.16% 
 7.49% 
 1.42% 
Non-U.S.
 8.83% 
 6.70% 
 2.22% 
Other interest-bearing liabilities
 8.42% 
 7.19% 
 1.72% 
Interest-bearing liabilities
 5.05% 
 4.64% 
 1.62% 
Interest rate spread
 0.13% 
 0.13% 
 0.46% 
U.S.
 0.52% 
 0.23% 
 0.70% 
Non-U.S.
 0.50% 
 0.81% 
 0.28% 
Net yield on interest-earning assets
 0.51% 
 0.44% 
 0.55% 
In the tables above:
• Assets, liabilities and interest are classified as U.S. and non-
U.S. based on the location of the legal entity in which the 
assets and liabilities are held. 
• Derivative instruments and commodities are included in 
other non-interest-earning assets and other non-interest-
bearing liabilities.
• Average collateralized agreements included $188.06 billion 
of resale agreements and $203.00  billion of securities 
borrowed for 2024, $179.35  billion of resale agreements 
and $193.77  billion of securities borrowed for 2023, and 
$216.73 billion of resale agreements and $194.86 billion of 
securities borrowed for 2022. 
• Other interest-earning assets primarily consists of certain 
receivables from customers and counterparties. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Supplemental Financial Information
236
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
• Collateralized financings included $252.88  billion of 
repurchase agreements and $63.81  billion of securities 
loaned for 2024, $198.26 billion of repurchase agreements 
and $49.78  billion of securities loaned for 2023, and 
$150.23 billion of repurchase agreements and $40.56 billion 
of securities loaned for 2022.
• Substantially all of the other interest-bearing liabilities 
consists 
of 
certain 
payables 
to 
customers 
and 
counterparties.
• Interest rates for borrowings include the effects of interest 
rate swaps accounted for as hedges.
• Loans exclude loans held for sale that are accounted for at 
the lower of cost or fair value. Such loans are included 
within other interest-earning assets.
• Short- and long-term borrowings include both secured and 
unsecured borrowings.
Changes  in  Net  Interest  Income, Volume  and  Rate
Analysis
The tables below present the effect on net interest income of 
volume and rate changes. In this analysis, changes due to 
volume/rate variance have been allocated to volume.  
Year Ended December 2024
versus December 2023
Increase (decrease)
due to change in:
$ in millions
Volume
Rate
Net Change
Interest-earning assets
U.S.
$ 
(1,042) $ 
(171) $ 
(1,213) 
Non-U.S.
 
(1,077)  
623  
(454) 
Deposits with banks
 
(2,119)  
452  
(1,667) 
U.S.
 
1,593  
1,053  
2,646 
Non-U.S.
 
(390)  
1,234  
844 
Collateralized agreements
 
1,203  
2,287  
3,490 
U.S.
 
2,744  
998  
3,742 
Non-U.S.
 
1,228  
886  
2,114 
Trading assets
 
3,972  
1,884  
5,856 
U.S.
 
967  
1,311  
2,278 
Non-U.S.
 
(17)  
(119)  
(136) 
Investments
 
950  
1,192  
2,142 
U.S.
 
1,044  
438  
1,482 
Non-U.S.
 
(212)  
(13)  
(225) 
Loans
 
832  
425  
1,257 
U.S.
 
(505)  
1,670  
1,165 
Non-U.S.
 
275  
364  
639 
Other interest-earning assets
 
(230)  
2,034  
1,804 
Change in interest income
 
4,608  
8,274  
12,882 
Interest-bearing liabilities
U.S.
 
1,190  
952  
2,142 
Non-U.S.
 
646  
484  
1,130 
Interest-bearing deposits
 
1,836  
1,436  
3,272 
U.S.
 
2,865  
338  
3,203 
Non-U.S.
 
951  
503  
1,454 
Collateralized financings
 
3,816  
841  
4,657 
U.S.
 
(80)  
430  
350 
Non-U.S.
 
62  
46  
108 
Trading liabilities
 
(18)  
476  
458 
U.S.
 
151  
394  
545 
Non-U.S.
 
88  
157  
245 
Short-term borrowings
 
239  
551  
790 
U.S.
 
(237)  
127  
(110) 
Non-U.S.
 
46  
(10)  
36 
Long-term borrowings
 
(191)  
117  
(74) 
U.S.
 
(365)  
1,007  
642 
Non-U.S.
 
(591)  
2,023  
1,432 
Other interest-bearing liabilities
 
(956)  
3,030  
2,074 
Change in interest expense
 
4,726  
6,451  
11,177 
Change in net interest income
$ 
(118) $ 
1,823 $ 
1,705 
Year Ended December 2023
versus December 2022
Increase (decrease)
due to change in:
$ in millions
Volume
Rate
Net Change
Interest-earning assets
U.S.
$ 
(1,169) $ 
5,450 $ 
4,281 
Non-U.S.
 
591  
2,844  
3,435 
Deposits with banks
 
(578)  
8,294  
7,716 
U.S.
 
(1,431)  
9,269  
7,838 
Non-U.S.
 
(363)  
4,462  
4,099 
Collateralized agreements
 
(1,794)  
13,731  
11,937 
U.S.
 
1,107  
1,248  
2,355 
Non-U.S.
 
436  
582  
1,018 
Trading assets
 
1,543  
1,830  
3,373 
U.S.
 
656  
743  
1,399 
Non-U.S.
 
16  
242  
258 
Investments
 
672  
985  
1,657 
U.S.
 
986  
4,379  
5,365 
Non-U.S.
 
(243)  
724  
481 
Loans
 
743  
5,103  
5,846 
U.S.
 
(982)  
6,012  
5,030 
Non-U.S.
 
(954)  
4,886  
3,932 
Other interest-earning assets
 
(1,936)  
10,898  
8,962 
Change in interest income
 
(1,350)  
40,841  
39,491 
Interest-bearing liabilities
U.S.
 
222  
8,477  
8,699 
Non-U.S.
 
312  
2,176  
2,488 
Interest-bearing deposits
 
534  
10,653  
11,187 
U.S.
 
2,683  
4,040  
6,723 
Non-U.S.
 
418  
2,756  
3,174 
Collateralized financings
 
3,101  
6,796  
9,897 
U.S.
 
(291)  
388  
97 
Non-U.S.
 
(148)  
581  
433 
Trading liabilities
 
(439)  
969  
530 
U.S.
 
340  
452  
792 
Non-U.S.
 
(7)  
(4)  
(11) 
Short-term borrowings
 
333  
448  
781 
U.S.
 
(1,326)  
6,594  
5,268 
Non-U.S.
 
43  
57  
100 
Long-term borrowings
 
(1,283)  
6,651  
5,368 
U.S.
 
(1,222)  
10,094  
8,872 
Non-U.S.
 
(215)  
4,398  
4,183 
Other interest-bearing liabilities
 
(1,437)  
14,492  
13,055 
Change in interest expense
 
809  
40,009  
40,818 
Change in net interest income
$ 
(2,159) $ 
832 $ 
(1,327) 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Supplemental Financial Information
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
237
Deposits
The table below presents information about interest-bearing 
deposits.
Year Ended December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Average balances
U.S.
Savings and demand
$ 242,378 $ 
241,356 
Time
 
90,372  
66,330 
Total U.S.
 
332,750  
307,686 
Non-U.S.
Demand
 
64,678  
57,506 
Time
 
31,506  
24,815 
Total non-U.S.
 
96,184  
82,321 
Total
$ 428,934 $ 
390,007 
Average interest rates
U.S.
Savings and demand
 4.72% 
 4.57% 
Time
 4.81% 
 3.97% 
Total U.S.
 4.75% 
 4.44% 
Non-U.S.
Demand
 4.53% 
 3.99% 
Time
 4.92% 
 4.26% 
Total non-U.S.
 4.66% 
 4.07% 
Total
 4.73% 
 4.36% 
In the table above, deposits are classified as U.S. and non-
U.S. based on the location of the entity in which such 
deposits are held.
The amount of deposits in U.S. offices held by non-U.S. 
depositors was $6.06  billion as of December 2024 and 
$10.34 billion as of December 2023. 
The amount of uninsured deposits in U.S. offices was $107.17 
billion as of December 2024 and $111.60  billion as of 
December 2023. These amounts exclude cash collateral on 
derivatives that is considered by the FDIC when determining 
uninsured deposits. Such collateral is either netted against the 
derivative balances or included in payables to customer and 
counterparties in our consolidated balance sheets.
The amount of uninsured deposits in non-U.S. offices was 
$65.32 billion as of December 2024 and $69.30 billion as of 
December 2023. 
The table below presents uninsured time deposits by 
maturity.
As of December 2024
$ in millions
U.S.
Non-U.S.
3 months or less
$ 
4,999 $ 
11,167 
3 to 6 months
 
3,553  
9,449 
6 to 12 months
 
2,760  
1,788 
Greater than 12 months
 
711  
1,204 
Total
$ 
12,023 $ 
23,608 
In the table above: 
• All U.S. time deposits were in accounts eligible for FDIC 
insurance and non-U.S. time deposits include deposits in 
accounts eligible for insurance in their local jurisdictions, 
as well as deposits in uninsured accounts. 
• The insurance limit (for account holders who have both 
time and other deposits that, in aggregate, exceed the 
insurance limit) is allocated between time and other 
deposits based on regulatory methodologies defined by 
each local jurisdiction.
Loan Portfolio
The table below presents information about gross loans. 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate
$ 29,972 
 15% 
$ 35,874 
 19% 
Commercial real estate
 
29,789 
 15% 
 
26,028 
 14% 
Residential real estate
 
25,969 
 13% 
 
25,388 
 13% 
Securities-based
 
16,477 
 8% 
 
14,621 
 8% 
Other collateralized
 
75,107 
 37% 
 
62,225 
 33% 
Consumer:
Installment
 
70  
– 
 
3,298 
 2% 
Credit cards
 
21,403 
 11% 
 
19,361 
 10% 
Other
 
2,079 
 1% 
 
1,613 
 1% 
Total
$ 200,866 
 100% 
$ 188,408 
 100% 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Supplemental Financial Information
238
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Maturities and Interest Rates. The table below presents 
gross loans by tenor.
As of December 2024
More than
More than
1 year
1 year to
5 years to
More than
$ in millions
or less
5 years
15 years
15 years
Total
Corporate
$ 2,134 $ 25,357 $ 
2,480 $ 
1 $ 29,972 
Commercial real estate
 
4,432  
23,845  
1,510  
2  29,789 
Residential real estate
 
4,999  
8,624  
132  
12,214  25,969 
Securities-based
 14,778  
1,683  
16  
–  16,477 
Other collateralized
 25,806  
47,133  
1,598  
570  75,107 
Consumer:
Installment
 
–  
70  
–  
–  
70 
Credit cards
 21,403  
–  
–  
–  21,403 
Other
 
1,060  
941  
74  
4  
2,079 
Total
$ 74,612 $ 107,653 $ 
5,810 $ 12,791 $ 200,866 
The table below presents the gross loans by tenor and for 
loans with tenors greater than one year, the distributions of 
such loans between fixed and floating interest rates.
  
As of December 2024
1 year
More than one year
$ in millions
or less
Fixed-rate
Floating-rate
Total
Corporate
$ 
2,134 $ 
340 $ 
27,498 $ 29,972 
Commercial real estate
 
4,432  
706  
24,651  29,789 
Residential real estate
 
4,999  
11,923  
9,047  25,969 
Securities-based
 
14,778  
44  
1,655  16,477 
Other collateralized
 
25,806  
323  
48,978  75,107 
Consumer:
Installment
 
–  
–  
70  
70 
Credit cards
 
21,403  
–  
–  21,403 
Other
 
1,060  
36  
983  
2,079 
Total
$ 74,612 $ 
13,372 $ 
112,882 $ 200,866 
Allowance for Loan Losses
The table below presents information about the allowance 
for loan losses.
 
As of December
$ in millions
2024
2023
Corporate
$ 
1,033 $ 
1,307 
Commercial real estate
 
637  
765 
Residential real estate
 
144  
129 
Securities-based
 
1  
– 
Other collateralized
 
279  
340 
Other
 
5  
35 
Wholesale
 
2,099  
2,576 
Installment
 
–  
23 
Credit cards
 
2,567  
2,451 
Consumer
 
2,567  
2,474 
Total
$ 
4,666 $ 
5,050 
The table below presents information about the net charge-
off ratio for loans accounted for at amortized cost.
Net
Average
Net charge-
$ in millions
charge-offs
balance
off ratio
Year Ended December 2024
Wholesale
$ 
48 $ 164,688  
– 
Installment
 
13  
155 
 8.4% 
Credit cards
 
1,354  
17,730 
 7.6% 
Consumer
 
1,367  
17,885 
 7.6% 
Total
$ 
1,415 $ 182,573 
 0.8% 
Year Ended December 2023
Wholesale
$ 
400 $ 
151,834 
 0.3% 
Installment
 
86  
3,721 
 2.3% 
Credit cards
 
1,062  
17,028 
 6.2% 
Consumer
 
1,148  
20,749 
 5.5% 
Total
$ 
1,548 $ 
172,583 
 0.9% 
In the table above, the net charge-off ratio is calculated by 
dividing the net charge-offs by average gross loans accounted 
for at amortized cost. Net charge-offs for wholesale loans 
were not material for 2024 and were primarily related to 
corporate loans for 2023.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Supplemental Financial Information
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
239
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements 
with Accountants on Accounting and 
Financial Disclosure 
There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants 
on accounting and financial disclosure during the last two 
years. 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 
As of the end of the period covered by this report, an 
evaluation was carried out by our management, with the 
participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure 
controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under 
the Exchange Act). Based on that evaluation, our Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that 
these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of 
the end of the period covered by this report. In addition, no 
change in our internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred 
during the fourth quarter of our year ended December 31, 
2024 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to 
materially affect, our internal control over financial 
reporting. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public 
Accounting Firm are set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 
10-K. 
Item 9B. Other Information 
Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans 
During the quarter ended December 2024, no directors or 
executive officers entered into, modified or terminated, 
contracts, instructions or written plans for the sale or 
purchase of Group Inc.’s securities that were intended to 
satisfy the affirmative defense conditions of Rule 10b5-1 or 
that constituted non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangements (as 
defined in Item 408 of Regulation S-K).
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign 
Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 
Not applicable.
PART III 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers 
and Corporate Governance 
Information about our executive officers is included in 
“Business — Information about our Executive Officers” in 
Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Information about our 
directors, including our audit committee and audit committee 
financial experts and the procedures by which shareholders 
can recommend director nominees, and our executive officers 
will be in our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2025 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed within 120 days 
of the end of 2024 (2025 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated 
in this Form 10-K by reference. Information about our Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to our senior 
financial officers, is included in “Business — Available 
Information” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 
We have adopted an insider trading policy governing the 
purchase, sale and/or other disposition of our securities by 
our directors, officers and employees and other covered 
persons, as well as Group Inc. itself, that we believe is 
reasonably designed to promote compliance with insider 
trading laws, rules and regulations and New York Stock 
Exchange listing standards. A copy of our insider trading 
policy is filed as Exhibit 19.1 to this Annual Report on Form 
10-K.
Item 11. Executive Compensation 
Information relating to our executive officer and director 
compensation and the compensation committee of the Board 
will be in the 2025 Proxy Statement and is incorporated in 
this Form 10-K by reference. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
240
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters
Information relating to security ownership of certain 
beneficial owners of our common stock and information 
relating to the security ownership of our management will be 
in the 2025 Proxy Statement and is incorporated in this Form 
10-K by reference.
The table below presents information as of December 31, 
2024 regarding securities to be issued pursuant to outstanding 
restricted stock units (RSUs) and securities remaining 
available for issuance under our equity compensation plans 
that were in effect during 2024.
Plan Category
Securities  
to be Issued 
Upon 
Exercise of 
Outstanding 
Options and 
Rights (a)
Weighted 
Average 
Exercise 
Price of 
Outstanding 
Options (b)
Securities 
Available  
For Future 
Issuance 
Under Equity 
Compensation 
Plans (c)
Equity compensation plans:
Approved by security holders
18,300,116
N/A
55,703,255
Not approved by security holders
–
–
–
Total
18,300,116
55,703,255
In the table above: 
• Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding 
Options and Rights includes 18,300,116 shares that may be 
issued pursuant to outstanding RSUs. These awards are 
subject to vesting and other conditions to the extent set 
forth in the respective award agreements, and the 
underlying shares will be delivered net of any required tax 
withholding. As of December 31, 2024, there were no 
outstanding options.
• Shares underlying RSUs are deliverable without the 
payment of any consideration, and therefore the weighted 
average exercise price is not applicable for these awards.
• Securities Available For Future Issuance Under Equity 
Compensation Plans represents shares remaining to be 
issued under our current stock incentive plan (SIP), 
excluding shares reflected in column (a). If any shares of 
common stock underlying awards granted under our 
current SIP or certain of our prior SIPs are not delivered 
due to forfeiture, termination or cancellation or are 
surrendered or withheld, those shares will again become 
available to be delivered under our current SIP. Shares 
available for grant are also subject to adjustment for certain 
changes in corporate structure as permitted under our 
current SIP. 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and 
Related Transactions, and Director 
Independence
Information regarding certain relationships and related 
transactions and director independence will be in the 2025 
Proxy Statement and is incorporated in this Form 10-K by 
reference. 
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and 
Services
Information regarding principal accountant fees and services 
will be in the 2025 Proxy Statement and is incorporated in 
this Form 10-K by reference. 
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibit and Financial 
Statement Schedules 
(a)  Documents filed as part of this Report:
1.  Consolidated Financial Statements
The consolidated financial statements required to be filed in 
this Form 10-K are included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.
2.  Exhibits
2.1 
Plan of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Registration 
Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-74449)).
3.1 
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., amended as of 
February 12, 2025 (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on 
Form 8-K, filed on February 13, 2025). 
3.2 
Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc., amended as of November 3, 
2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to 
the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
for the quarter ended September 30, 2023).
4.1 
Description of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.’s 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
4.2 
Indenture, dated as of May 19, 1999, between The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New 
York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 
6 
to 
the 
Registrant’s 
Registration 
Statement on Form 8-A, filed on June 29, 1999).
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
241
4.3 
Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of February 
20, 2004, between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
November 28, 2003).
4.4 
Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2007, 
among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of 
New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 4.69 to the Registrant’s Post-Effective 
Amendment No. 10 to Form S-3, filed on December 4, 
2007).
4.5 
Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008, 
between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The 
Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 4.82 to the Registrant’s Post-
Effective Amendment No. 11 to Form S-3 (No. 
333-130074), filed on July 17, 2008).
4.6 
Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 
31, 2016, between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, with 
respect to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 
16, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to 
the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on 
January 6, 2017).
4.7 
Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2008, 
among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of 
New York Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 4.70 to the Registrant’s 
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-154173), 
filed on October 10, 2008).
4.8 
First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 20, 
2015, among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as guarantor, and The 
Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, with respect to 
the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 10, 
2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2014). 
4.9 
Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 
21, 2018, among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as guarantor, and The 
Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, with respect 
to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 
10, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 
to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
for the period ended September 30, 2018).
4.10 
Ninth Supplemental Subordinated Debt Indenture, 
dated as of May 20, 2015, between The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York 
Mellon, 
as 
trustee, 
with 
respect 
to 
the 
Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of February 
20, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, 
filed on May 22, 2015).
4.11 
Tenth Supplemental Subordinated Debt Indenture, 
dated as of July 7, 2017, between The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York 
Mellon, 
as 
trustee, 
with 
respect 
to 
the 
Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of February 
20, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.89 
to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 
S-3 (No. 333-219206), filed on July 10, 2017).
4.12 
Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 
1, 2020, among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as guarantor, and The 
Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, with respect 
to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 
10, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.69 
to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 
S-3 (No. 333-239610), filed on July 1, 2020).
4.13 
Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of 
October 14, 2020, among GS Finance Corp., as 
issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as 
guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as 
trustee, with respect to the Senior Debt Indenture, 
dated as of October 10, 2008 (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current 
Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 14, 2020).
Certain instruments defining the rights of holders 
of long-term debt securities of the Registrant and 
its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 
601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant 
hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon 
request, copies of any such instruments.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
242
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
10.1   Amended and Restated The Goldman Sachs Group, 
Inc. Clawback Policy, effective as of December 1, 2023 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the 
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
period ended March 31, 2024).
10.2 
The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock 
Incentive Plan (2021) (incorporated by reference to 
Annex C to the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy 
Statement on Schedule 14A, filed on March 19, 2021). 
†
10.3 
The Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation Plan 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 
Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 
333-74449)). †
10.4 
The 
Goldman 
Sachs 
Amended 
and 
Restated 
Restricted Partner Compensation Plan (incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended 
February 24, 2006). †
10.5 
Form of Employment Agreement for Participating 
Managing Directors (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.19 to the Registrant’s Registration 
Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-75213)). †
10.6 
Form of Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and 
Other Covenants (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant’s Registration 
Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-75213)). †
10.7 
Amended and Restated Shareholders’ Agreement, 
effective as of December 31, 2019, among The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and various parties 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the 
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2019).
10.8 
Form of Amendment, dated November 27, 2004, to 
Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other 
Covenants, dated May 7, 1999 (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
November 26, 2004). †
10.9 
Form of Non-Employee Director RSU Award 
Agreement (pre-2015) (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2014). †
10.10 Ground Lease, dated August 23, 2005, between 
Battery Park City Authority d/b/a/ Hugh L. Carey 
Battery Park City Authority, as Landlord, and 
Goldman Sachs Headquarters LLC, as Tenant 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the 
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on 
August 26, 2005). 
10.11 General Guarantee Agreement, dated January 30, 
2006, made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
relating to certain obligations of Goldman Sachs & 
Co. LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 
to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the fiscal year ended November 25, 2005).
10.12 Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Executive Life Insurance 
Policy and Certificate with Metropolitan Life 
Insurance Company for Participating Managing 
Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to 
the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the period ended August 25, 2006). †
10.13 Form of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Executive Life 
Insurance Policy with Pacific Life & Annuity 
Company for Participating Managing Directors, 
including policy specifications and form of restriction 
on Policy Owner’s Rights (incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report 
on Form 10-Q for the period ended August 25, 2006). 
†
10.14 Form of Second Amendment, dated November 25, 
2006, to Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and 
Other Covenants, dated May 7, 1999, as amended 
effective November 27, 2004 (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the Registrant’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
November 24, 2006). †
10.15 Description of PMD Retiree Medical Program 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2021). †
10.16 General Guarantee Agreement, dated December 1, 
2008, made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
relating to certain obligations of Goldman Sachs Bank 
USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.80 to the 
Registrant’s Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to Form 
S-3, filed on March 19, 2009).
10.17 Form of One-Time RSU Award Agreement (pre-2015) 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2014). †
10.18 Amendments to Certain Non-Employee Director 
Equity Award Agreements (incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 10.69 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 28, 
2008). †
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
243
10.19 Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (not fully 
vested) (pre-2015) (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2014). †
10.20 Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (fully 
vested) (pre-2015) (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.37 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2014). †
10.21 Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (Base and/
or 
Supplemental) 
(pre-2015) 
(incorporated 
by 
reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2014). †
10.22 Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award Agreement 
(fully vested) (pre-2015) (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.41 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2013). †   
10.23 Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award Agreement 
(Base and/or Supplemental) (pre-2015) (incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to the Registrant’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2014). †
10.24 Form of Fixed Allowance RSU Award Agreement 
(pre-2015) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 
to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014). †
10.25 Form of Deed of Gift (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2010). †
10.26 The 
Goldman 
Sachs 
Long-Term 
Performance 
Incentive 
Plan, 
dated 
December 
17, 
2010 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the 
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on 
December 23, 2010). †
10.27 Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit 
Award 
Agreement 
(pre-2015) 
(incorporated 
by 
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current 
Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 23, 2010). †
10.28 Form 
of 
Performance-Based 
Option 
Award 
Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed 
on December 23, 2010). † 
10.29 Form of Performance-Based Cash Compensation 
Award 
Agreement 
(pre-2015) 
(incorporated 
by 
reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Current 
Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 23, 2010). †
10.30 Amended 
and 
Restated 
General 
Guarantee 
Agreement, dated November 21, 2011, made by The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to certain 
obligations 
of 
Goldman 
Sachs 
Bank 
USA 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the 
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on 
November 21, 2011).
10.31 Form 
of 
Aircraft 
Time 
Sharing 
Agreement 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the 
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011). †
10.32 Form of Non-Employee Director RSU Award 
Agreement. †
10.33 Form of Non-Employee Director RSU Award 
Agreement (Cash-Settled)
10.34 Form 
of 
One-Time/Year-End 
RSU 
Award 
Agreement. †
10.35 Form of One-Time/Year-End RSU Award Agreement 
(fully vested). †
10.36 Form of One-Time/Year-End RSU Award Agreement 
(Base (not fully vested) and/or Supplemental). †
10.37 Form of One-Time/Year-End Short-Term RSU Award 
Agreement. †
10.38 Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award Agreement 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46 to the 
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2020). †
10.39 Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award Agreement 
(fully vested) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
10.53 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017). †
10.40 Form of Year-End Short-Term Restricted Stock 
Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.57 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2015). †
10.41 Form of Fixed Allowance Deferred Cash Award 
Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.59 
to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015). †
10.42 Form of One-Time/Year-End Performance-Based 
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (fully 
vested). †
10.43 Form of One-Time/Year-End Performance-Based 
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (not fully 
vested). †
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
244
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
10.44 Form of Performance-Based Cash Compensation 
Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.61 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2015). †
10.45 Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards. †
10.46 Form of Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited 
Partnership for Participants in the Long Term 
Executive Carried Interest Incentive Program. † 
10.47 Form of Subscription Agreement and Materials for 
Participants in the Long Term Executive Carried 
Interest Incentive Program. † 
10.48 Amended 
and 
Restated 
General 
Guarantee 
Agreement, dated September 28, 2018, made by The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to certain 
obligations 
of 
Goldman 
Sachs 
Bank 
USA 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the 
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on 
September 28, 2018).
10.49 Amended 
and 
Restated 
General 
Guarantee 
Agreement, dated September 28, 2018, made by The 
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to certain 
obligations 
of 
Goldman 
Sachs 
& 
Co. 
LLC 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the 
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on 
September 28, 2018).
10.50 Lease, dated August 17, 2018, between Farringdon 
Street Partners Limited and Farringdon Street 
(Nominee) Limited, as Landlord, and Goldman Sachs 
International, as Tenant (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018).
19.1 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Firmwide Insider 
Trading Policy. 
21.1 
List of significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc.
22.1 
Issuers of guaranteed securities (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 22.1 to the Registrant’s Post-
Effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3, filed on 
February 18, 2021).
23.1 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting 
Firm.
31.1 
Rule 13a-14(a) Certifications. 
32.1 
Section 1350 Certifications (This information is 
furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 
12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
97.1 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Policy for the 
Recovery of Erroneously Awarded Compensation, 
effective as of December 1, 2023 (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 97.1 to the Registrant’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2023).
101 
Pursuant to Rules 405 and 406 of Regulation S-T, the 
following information is formatted in iXBRL (Inline 
eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the 
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years 
ended December 31, 2024, December 31, 2023 and 
December 31, 2022, (ii) the Consolidated Statements 
of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 
December 31, 2024, December 31, 2023 and December 
31, 2022, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, (iv) the 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ 
Equity for the years ended December 31, 2024, 
December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, (v) the 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years 
ended December 31, 2024, December 31, 2023 and 
December 31, 2022, (vi) the notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and (vii) the cover page. 
104 
Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted in iXBRL 
in Exhibit 101).
† This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or 
arrangement.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
245
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
By:
/s/
Denis P. Coleman III
Name:
Denis P. Coleman III
Title:
Chief Financial Officer
Date:
February 26, 2025
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following 
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and 
on the dates indicated.
By:
/s/
David Solomon
Name:
David Solomon
Title:
Director, Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
M. Michele Burns
Name:
M. Michele Burns
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Mark A. Flaherty
Name:
Mark A. Flaherty
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Kimberley D. Harris
Name:
Kimberley D. Harris
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
John B. Hess
Name:
John B. Hess
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Kevin R. Johnson
Name:
Kevin R. Johnson
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Ellen J. Kullman
Name:
Ellen J. Kullman
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
KC McClure
Name:
KC McClure
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Lakshmi N. Mittal
Name:
Lakshmi N. Mittal
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Thomas Montag
Name:
Thomas Montag
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Peter Oppenheimer
Name:
Peter Oppenheimer
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Jan E. Tighe
Name:
Jan E. Tighe
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
David A. Viniar
Name:
David A. Viniar
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
John E. Waldron
Name:
John E. Waldron
Title:
Director
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Denis P. Coleman III
Name:
Denis P. Coleman III
Title:
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)
Date:
February 26, 2025
By:
/s/
Sheara J. Fredman
Name:
Sheara J. Fredman
Title:
Chief Accounting Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:
February 26, 2025
246
Goldman Sachs 2024 Form 10-K
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
DESCRIPTION OF SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2024
The following is a description of each class of securities of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the “Company”) 
that is registered under Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as of December 
31, 2024.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Description of Common Stock 
2
Description of the Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a Share of Floating Rate Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A 
5
Description of the Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a Share of Floating Rate Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C 
14
Description of the Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a Share of Floating Rate Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D 
23
Description of (i) 5.793% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of 
Goldman Sachs Capital II (Fully and Unconditionally Guaranteed by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.) 
and (ii) Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of Goldman Sachs 
Capital III (Fully and Unconditionally Guaranteed by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.) 
32
Description of Medium-Term Notes, Series F, Callable Fixed and Floating Rate Notes due March 2031 of GS 
Finance Corp. (Fully and Unconditionally Guaranteed by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.) 
52
Description of Medium-Term Notes, Series F, Callable Fixed and Floating Rate Notes due May 2031 of GS 
Finance Corp. (Fully and Unconditionally Guaranteed by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.) 
62
Exhibit 4.1
DESCRIPTION OF COMMON STOCK
The following is a brief description of the material terms of the Company’s common stock. The following 
summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the pertinent sections of 
the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation and the Company’s amended and restated by-laws, which 
are exhibits to the Annual Report of which this exhibit is a part. Unless the context otherwise provides, all 
references to the Company in this description refer only to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and does not 
include its consolidated subsidiaries.
Pursuant to the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation, the Company’s authorized capital stock 
consists of 4,350,000,000 shares, each with a par value of $0.01 per share, of which 4,000,000,000 shares are 
designated as common stock and 200,000,000 shares are designated as nonvoting common stock. All 
outstanding shares of common stock are validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, which means that its 
holders have paid their purchase price in full and that the Company may not ask them to surrender additional 
funds.
The Company’s Shareholders’ Agreement governs, among other things, the voting of shares of common stock 
owned by participating managing directors of the Company. Shares of common stock subject to the Company’s 
Shareholders’ Agreement are called “voting shares.” Before any of the Company’s shareholders vote, a 
separate, preliminary vote is held by the persons covered by the Company’s Shareholders’ Agreement. In the 
election of directors, all voting shares will be voted in favor of the election of the director nominees receiving the 
highest numbers of votes cast by the covered persons in the preliminary vote. For all other matters, all voting 
shares will be voted in accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the covered persons in the preliminary 
vote.
Common Stock
Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote for each share owned of record on all matters submitted to 
a vote of shareholders. There are no cumulative voting rights. Accordingly, the holders of a plurality of the 
shares of common stock voting in a contested election of directors can elect all the directors if they choose to 
do so, subject to any voting rights of holders of preferred stock to elect directors. In an uncontested director 
election, a director must receive a majority of the votes cast for or against the director to be elected.
Subject to the preferential rights of any holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock, the holders of 
common stock, together with the holders of the nonvoting common stock, are entitled to such dividends and 
distributions, whether payable in cash or otherwise, as may be declared from time to time by the Company’s 
board of directors from legally available funds. Subject to the preferential rights of holders of any outstanding 
series of preferred stock, upon the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up and after payment of all 
prior claims, the holders of common stock, with the shares of the common stock and the nonvoting common 
stock being considered as a single class for this purpose, will be entitled to receive pro rata all the Company’s 
assets. Holders of common stock have no redemption or conversion rights or preemptive rights to purchase or 
subscribe for securities of the Company.
Nonvoting Common Stock
The nonvoting common stock has the same rights and privileges as, ranks equally and shares proportionately 
with, and is identical in all respects as to all matters to, the common stock, except that the nonvoting common 
stock has no voting rights other than those voting rights required by law.
Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law
The Company is subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, 
Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an 
“interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became 
-2-
an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business 
combination” includes a merger, asset sale or a transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested 
stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns (or, in 
certain cases, within the preceding three years, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting 
stock. Under Section 203, a business combination between the Company and an interested stockholder is 
prohibited unless it satisfies one of the following conditions:
•
prior to the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the board of directors of the 
Company must have previously approved either the business combination or the transaction 
that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder;
•
on consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested 
stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the 
Company outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding, for purposes of 
determining the number of shares outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by 
the interested stockholder), those shares owned (i) by persons who are directors and also 
officers and (ii) employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to 
determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or 
exchange offer; or
•
at or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors 
and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by 
the affirmative vote of at least 66 2⁄3% of the outstanding voting stock which is not owned by 
the interested stockholder.
The Company’s board of directors has adopted a resolution providing that the shareholders’ agreement will not 
create an “interested stockholder.”
Certain Anti-Takeover Matters
The Company’s restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws include a number of 
provisions that may have the effect of encouraging persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other 
unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with the Company’s board of directors rather than pursue non-
negotiated takeover attempts. These provisions include:
Constituency Provision
In accordance with the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation, a director of the Company may (but is 
not required to) in taking any action (including an action that may involve or relate to a change or potential 
change in control of the Company), consider, among other things, the effects that the Company’s actions may 
have on other interests or persons (including its employees, former partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. 
and the community) in addition to the Company’s shareholders.
Advance Notice Requirements
The Company’s amended and restated by-laws establish advance notice procedures with regard to 
shareholder proposals relating to the nomination of candidates for election as directors or new business to be 
brought before meetings of shareholders of the Company. These procedures provide that notice of such 
shareholder proposals must be timely given in writing to the Secretary of the Company prior to the meeting at 
which the action is to be taken. The time periods vary depending on the nature of the proposal. The notice must 
contain certain information specified in the amended and restated by-laws and must otherwise comply with the 
amended and restated by-laws.
Limitation on Ability of Shareholders to Call Special Meetings
The Company’s restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws provide procedures 
pursuant to which holders of record of not less than 25% of the voting power of outstanding shares of the 
-3-
Company’s common stock may call a special meeting of shareholders. The Company’s amended and restated 
by-laws impose certain procedural requirements on shareholders requesting such a meeting (including the 
provision of the same information required for shareholder proposals at annual meetings under the Company’s 
advance notice by-law provisions described above), as well as qualifications designed to prevent duplicative 
and unnecessary meetings.
No Written Consent of Shareholders
The Company’s restated certificate of incorporation requires all shareholder actions to be taken by a vote of the 
shareholders at an annual or special meeting, and does not permit the Company’s shareholders to act by 
written consent without a meeting.
Blank Check Preferred Stock
The Company’s restated certificate of incorporation provides for 150,000,000 authorized shares of preferred 
stock. The existence of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock may enable the board of directors to 
render more difficult or to discourage an attempt to obtain control of the Company by means of a merger, 
tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. For example, if in the due exercise of its fiduciary obligations, the 
board of directors were to determine that a takeover proposal is not in the best interests of the Company, the 
board of directors could cause shares of preferred stock to be issued without shareholder approval in one or 
more private offerings or other transactions that might dilute the voting or other rights of the proposed acquiror 
or insurgent shareholder or shareholder group. In this regard, the restated certificate of incorporation grants the 
Company’s board of directors broad power to establish the rights and preferences of authorized and unissued 
shares of preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings 
and assets available for distribution to holders of shares of common stock. The issuance may also adversely 
affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders and may have the effect of delaying, 
deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company.
Listing
The common stock of the Company is listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “GS.”
-4-
DESCRIPTION OF THE DEPOSITARY SHARES, EACH REPRESENTING 1/1,000TH INTEREST IN A 
SHARE OF FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES A
DESCRIPTION OF SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK
The depositary is the sole holder of the Company’s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A 
(the “Series A Preferred Stock”), and all references herein to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall 
mean the depositary. However, the holders of depositary shares are entitled, through the depositary, to 
exercise the rights and preferences of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, as described below under 
“Description of Depositary Shares.”
The following is a brief description of the material terms of the Series A Preferred Stock. The following 
summary of the terms and provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock does not purport to be complete and is 
qualified in its entirety by reference to the pertinent sections of the Company’s restated certificate of 
incorporation, which is an exhibit to the Annual Report of which this exhibit is a part. Unless the context 
otherwise provides, all references to the Company in this description refer only to The Goldman Sachs Group, 
Inc. and does not include its consolidated subsidiaries.
General
The Company’s authorized capital stock includes 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per 
share. The Series A Preferred Stock is part of a single series of the Company’s authorized preferred stock. The 
Company may from time to time, without notice to or the consent of holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, 
issue additional shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, up to the maximum number of authorized but unissued 
shares.
Shares of the Series A Preferred Stock rank senior to the Company’s common stock, equally with each other 
series of the Company’s preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and at least equally to each 
other series of preferred stock that the Company may issue (except for any senior series that may be issued 
with the requisite consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock), with respect to the payment of 
dividends and distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In addition, the Company will 
generally be able to pay dividends and distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up only out of 
lawfully available funds for such payment (i.e., after taking account of all indebtedness and other non-equity 
claims). The Series A Preferred Stock is fully paid and nonassessable, which means that its holders have paid 
their purchase price in full and that the Company may not ask them to surrender additional funds. Holders of 
Series A Preferred Stock do not have preemptive or subscription rights to acquire more stock of the Company.
The Series A Preferred Stock is not convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or series of 
stock or other securities of the Company, except under certain limited circumstances described below under “— 
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy.” The Series A Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and is 
not subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company to redeem or repurchase the Series A 
Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock represents non-withdrawable capital, is not a bank deposit and 
is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency, nor is it the obligation of, or guaranteed by, a 
bank.
Dividends
Dividends on shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are not mandatory. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock 
are entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Company’s board of directors or a duly authorized 
committee of the board, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-
cumulative cash dividends from the original issue date, quarterly in arrears on the 10th day of February, May, 
August and November of each year (each, a “dividend payment date”). These dividends accrue, with respect to 
each dividend period, on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per 
depositary share) at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) 0.75% above LIBOR (as described below) on 
-5-
the related LIBOR determination date (as described below) or (2) 3.75%. In the event that the Company issues 
additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock after the original issue date, dividends on such shares may 
accrue from the original issue date or any other date the Company specifies at the time such additional shares 
are issued.
Dividends will be payable to holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock as they appear on the Company’s 
books on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before that dividend payment date or 
such other record date fixed by the Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) 
that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such dividend payment date (each, a “dividend record 
date”). These dividend record dates will apply regardless of whether a particular dividend record date is a 
business day. The corresponding record dates for the depositary shares are the same as the record dates for 
the Series A Preferred Stock.
A dividend period is the period from and including a dividend payment date to but excluding the next dividend 
payment date. Dividends payable on the Series A Preferred Stock are computed on the basis of a 360-day year 
and the actual number of days elapsed in the dividend period. If any date on which dividends would otherwise 
be payable is not a business day, then the dividend payment date will be the next succeeding business day 
unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the dividend payment date will be the 
immediately preceding day that is a business day.
For any dividend period, LIBOR shall be determined by the calculation agent on the second London business 
day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period in the following manner:
•
LIBOR will be the offered rate per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning 
on the first day of such period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 
11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London business day immediately preceding the first 
day of such dividend period.
•
If the rate described above does not appear on Moneyline Telerate page 3750, LIBOR will be 
determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second 
London business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period, at which 
deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by 
four major banks in that market selected by the calculation agent: three-month deposits in 
U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such dividend period, and in a Representative 
Amount. The calculation agent will request the principal London office of each of these banks 
to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for the second 
London business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period will be the 
arithmetic mean of the quotations.
•
If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, LIBOR for the second London 
business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period will be the arithmetic 
mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at 
approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time on the second London business day 
immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period, by three major banks in New York 
City selected by the calculation agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first 
day of such dividend period, and in a Representative Amount.
•
If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as described above, 
LIBOR for the new dividend period will be LIBOR in effect for the prior dividend period.
•
Under the Federal Reserve System’s (“FRB”) final rule and the Adjustable Interest Rate Act (“LIBOR 
Act”), on the first London business day following June 30, 2023, LIBOR was replaced with three-month term 
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) plus the statutorily prescribed tenor spread, with three-month term 
SOFR determined by the calculation agent on the second U.S. government securities business day 
immediately preceding the first day of the applicable dividend period.
-6-
The calculation agent’s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for 
any dividend period, will be on file at the Company’s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder 
upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
This subsection uses several terms that have special meanings relevant to calculating LIBOR. Those terms 
have the following meanings:
The term “Representative Amount” means an amount that, in the calculation agent’s judgment, is 
representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
The term “Moneyline Telerate Page” means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any successor service, 
on the page or pages specified herein or any replacement page or pages on that service.
The term “business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a 
day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive 
order to close.
The term “London business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and 
is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
Dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock are not cumulative. Accordingly, if the board of directors of the 
Company, or a duly authorized committee of the board, does not declare a dividend on the Series A Preferred 
Stock payable in respect of any dividend period before the related dividend payment date, such dividend will 
not accrue and the Company will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that dividend period on the dividend 
payment date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are declared for 
any future dividend period.
So long as any share of Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend shall be paid or declared on 
the Company’s common stock or any other shares of the Company’s junior stock (as defined below) (other than 
a dividend payable solely in junior stock), and no common stock or other junior stock shall be purchased, 
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Company, directly or indirectly (other than as a result 
of a reclassification of junior stock for or into other junior stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of 
junior stock for or into another share of junior stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a 
substantially contemporaneous sale of junior stock), during a dividend period, unless the full dividends for the 
latest completed dividend period on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock have been declared and 
paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). However, the foregoing 
provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, or any of the Company’s other affiliates, to 
engage in any market-making transactions in the Company’s junior stock in the ordinary course of business.
As used in this description of the Series A Preferred Stock, “junior stock” means any class or series of stock of 
the Company that ranks junior to the Series A Preferred Stock either as to the payment of dividends or as to the 
distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Junior stock includes the 
Company’s common stock.
When dividends are not paid (or duly provided for) on any dividend payment date (or, in the case of parity 
stock, as defined below, having dividend payment dates different from the dividend payment dates pertaining to 
the Series A Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related dividend period for the 
Series A Preferred Stock) in full upon the Series A Preferred Stock and any shares of parity stock, all dividends 
declared upon the Series A Preferred Stock and all such equally ranking securities payable on such dividend 
payment date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the dividend 
payment dates pertaining to the Series A Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related 
dividend period for the Series A Preferred Stock) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of 
such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the 
Series A Preferred Stock and all parity stock payable on such dividend payment date (or, in the case of parity 
-7-
stock having dividend payment dates different from the dividend payment dates pertaining to the Series A 
Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related dividend period for the Series A Preferred 
Stock) bear to each other.
As used in this description of the Series A Preferred Stock, “parity stock” means any other class or series of 
stock of the Company that ranks equally with the Series A Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in 
the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the 
Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) may be declared and paid on the 
Company’s common stock and any other stock ranking equally with or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock 
from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the shares of the Series A Preferred 
Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
Liquidation Rights
Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, holders of the Series A 
Preferred Stock are entitled to receive out of assets of the Company available for distribution to stockholders, 
after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors, if any, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of common 
stock or of any of the Company’s other shares of stock ranking junior as to such a distribution to the shares of 
Series A Preferred Stock, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per 
depositary share) plus declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Company after they 
have received their full liquidation preference.
In any such distribution, if the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay the liquidation preferences in full 
to all holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and all holders of any other shares of the Company’s stock 
ranking equally as to such distribution with the Series A Preferred Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of 
Series A Preferred Stock and to the holders of all such other stock will be paid pro rata in accordance with the 
respective aggregate liquidation preferences of those holders. In any such distribution, the “liquidation 
preference” of any holder of preferred stock means the amount payable to such holder in such distribution, 
including any declared but unpaid dividends (and any unpaid, accrued cumulative dividends in the case of any 
holder of stock on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis). If the liquidation preference has been paid in 
full to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock, the holders of the Company’s other stock shall be entitled to 
receive all remaining assets of the Company according to their respective rights and preferences.
For purposes of this description of the Series A Preferred Stock, the merger or consolidation of the Company 
with any other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series A Preferred Stock 
receive cash, securities or property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of 
the assets of the Company for cash, securities or other property shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or 
winding up of the Company.
Redemption
The Series A Preferred Stock is not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar 
provisions. The Series A Preferred Stock is currently redeemable at the Company’s option, in whole or in part, 
upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days’ notice, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share 
(equivalent to $25 per depositary share), plus declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any 
undeclared dividends. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock have no right to require the redemption or 
repurchase of the Series A Preferred Stock.
If shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the notice of redemption shall be given by first-
class mail to the holders of record of the Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed, mailed not less than 30 
days nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof (provided that, if the depositary 
-8-
shares representing the Series A Preferred Stock are held in book-entry form through The Depository Trust 
Company, or “DTC,” the Company may give such notice in any manner permitted by the DTC). Each notice of 
redemption will include a statement setting forth: (i) the redemption date, (ii) the number of shares of the Series 
A Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the 
number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder, (iii) the redemption price and (iv) the place or places 
where holders may surrender certificates evidencing shares of Series A Preferred Stock for payment of the 
redemption price. If notice of redemption of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock has been given and if the 
funds necessary for such redemption have been set aside by the Company for the benefit of the holders of any 
shares of Series A Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, from and after the redemption date, 
dividends will cease to accrue on such shares of Series A Preferred Stock, such shares of Series A Preferred 
Stock shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of the holders of such shares will terminate, except 
the right to receive the redemption price.
In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the 
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Company may 
determine to be fair and equitable.
See “Description of Depositary Shares” below for information about redemption of the depositary shares 
relating to the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock.
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy
The SEC had previously approved the application of the Company and Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC to be 
supervised by the SEC as a consolidated supervised entity (“CSE”) pursuant to the SEC’s rules at that time 
relating to CSEs (referred to as the “CSE Rules”). The Company treated the Series A Preferred Stock as 
allowable capital in accordance with the CSE Rules (such capital is referred to below as “Allowable Capital”).
If the regulatory capital requirements that apply to the Company change in the future, the Series A Preferred 
Stock may be converted, at the Company’s option and without consent of the holders, into a new series of 
preferred stock, subject to the limitations described below. The Company will be entitled to exercise this 
conversion right as follows.
If both of the following occur:
•
the Company (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or 
guidance (together, “regulations”) relating to the Company’s capital adequacy, which 
regulation (i) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital, (ii) 
provides for a type or level of capital characterized as “Tier 1” or its equivalent pursuant to 
regulations of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the Company (or any of the 
Company’s subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing capital standards 
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the SEC, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) or any other United States 
national governmental body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards 
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (iii) provides for 
a type of capital that in the Company’s judgment (after consultation with counsel of recognized 
standing) is substantially equivalent to such “Tier 1” capital (such capital described in either (ii) 
or (iii) is referred to below as “Tier 1 Capital Equivalent”), and
•
the Company affirmatively elects to qualify the Series A Preferred Stock for such Allowable 
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative 
restriction on the inclusion of the Series A Preferred Stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 
Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Company elects to accept and any limitation 
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant 
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series A Preferred Stock shall be convertible at the Company’s option 
into a new series of preferred stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series A 
Preferred Stock, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, 
-9-
privileges and voting powers, and such limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary, in the Company’s 
judgment (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), to comply with the Required Unrestricted 
Capital Provisions (defined below), provided that the Company will not cause any such conversion unless the 
Company determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of such new series of preferred 
stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock, taken as a whole. For example, the Company 
could agree to restrict its ability to pay dividends on or redeem the new series of preferred stock for a specified 
period or indefinitely, to the extent permitted by the terms and provisions of the new series of preferred stock, 
since such a restriction would be permitted in the Company’s discretion under the terms and provisions of the 
Series A Preferred Stock.
The Company will provide notice to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock of any election to qualify the Series 
A Preferred Stock for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to 
convert the Series A Preferred Stock into a new series of preferred stock, promptly upon the effectiveness of 
any such election or determination. A copy of any such notice and of the relevant regulations will be on file at 
the Company’s principal offices and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder.
As used above, the term “Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions” means the terms that are, in the 
Company’s judgment (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be 
treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other 
quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent 
(other than any limitation the Company elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a 
specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) 
pursuant to applicable regulations.
Voting Rights
Except as provided below, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have no voting rights.
Whenever dividends on any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have not been declared and paid for 
the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods (as used in 
this section, a “Nonpayment”), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all 
other series of voting preferred stock (as defined below) then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election 
of a total of two additional members of the Company’s board of directors (as used in this section, the “Preferred 
Stock Directors”), provided that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Company to violate the 
corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the 
Company’s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. In 
that event, the number of directors on the Company’s board of directors shall automatically increase by two, 
and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at 
least 20% of the Series A Preferred Stock or of any other series of voting preferred stock (unless such request 
is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in 
which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each 
subsequent annual meeting. These voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series A 
Preferred Stock and any such series of voting preferred stock for at least four dividend periods, whether or not 
consecutive, following the Nonpayment shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the 
payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for payment).
As used in this description of the Series A Preferred Stock, “voting preferred stock” means any other class or 
series of preferred stock of the Company ranking equally with the Series A Preferred Stock either as to 
dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting 
rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of 
Series A Preferred Stock and any other voting preferred stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be 
determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.
-10-
If and when dividends for at least four dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, following a Nonpayment 
have been paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside), the 
holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in 
the event of each subsequent Nonpayment) and, if such voting rights for all other holders of voting preferred 
stock have terminated, the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the 
number of directors on the board of directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether 
dividends have been paid for four dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Company may take account of 
any dividend the Company elects to pay for such a dividend period after the regular dividend date for that 
period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of 
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights 
described above (voting together as a class with all series of voting preferred stock then outstanding). So long 
as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the 
initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director 
remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the 
outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting 
together as a class with all series of voting preferred stock then outstanding). The Preferred Stock Directors 
shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
So long as any shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Company will not, without the 
affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Series A 
Preferred Stock and all other series of voting preferred stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a 
single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at a meeting:
•
amend or alter the provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation so as to 
authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any class or series of stock ranking 
senior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution 
of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company;
•
amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation so 
as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting 
powers of the Series A Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; or
•
consummate a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series A Preferred 
Stock or a merger or consolidation of the Company with another entity, unless in each case (i) 
the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger 
or consolidation with respect to which the Company is not the surviving or resulting entity, are 
converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its 
ultimate parent, and (ii) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as 
the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a 
whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;
provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series A Preferred Stock or 
authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of 
other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to 
the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of 
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company will not be deemed to adversely affect the 
special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, any 
conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain regulatory events, as discussed 
above under “—
 Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy,” will not be deemed to adversely affect 
the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock.
If an amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above 
would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series A Preferred 
Stock for this purpose), then only the series affected and entitled to vote shall vote as a class in lieu of all such 
series of preferred stock.
-11-
Without the consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely 
affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock, taken as a 
whole, the Company may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series A Preferred Stock:
•
to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in the 
certificate of designation for the Series A Preferred Stock that may be defective or 
inconsistent; or
•
to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series A 
Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the certificate of designations.
The foregoing voting provisions will not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such 
vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall 
have been redeemed or called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside 
by the Company for the benefit of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock to effect such redemption.
DESCRIPTION OF DEPOSITARY SHARES
Please note that as used in this section, references to “holders” of depositary shares mean those who own 
depositary shares registered in their own names, on the books that the Company or the depositary maintain for 
this purpose, and not indirect holders who own beneficial interests in depositary shares registered in street 
name or issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company.
General
The Company has issued fractional interests in shares of preferred stock in the form of depositary shares, each 
representing a 1/1,000th ownership interest in a share of Series A Preferred Stock and evidenced by a 
depositary receipt. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock represented by depositary shares are deposited 
under a deposit agreement among the Company, the depositary and the holders from time to time of the 
depositary receipts evidencing the depositary shares. Subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, each 
holder of a depositary share is entitled, through the depositary, in proportion to the applicable fraction of a share 
of Series A Preferred Stock represented by such depositary share, to all the rights and preferences of the 
Series A Preferred Stock represented thereby (including dividend, voting, redemption and liquidation rights).
Dividends and Other Distributions
The depositary will distribute any cash dividends or other cash distributions received in respect of the deposited 
Series A Preferred Stock to the record holders of depositary shares relating to the underlying Series A Preferred 
Stock in proportion to the number of depositary shares held by the holders. The depositary will distribute any 
property received by it other than cash to the record holders of depositary shares entitled to those distributions, 
unless it determines that the distribution cannot be made proportionally among those holders or that it is not 
feasible to make a distribution. In that event, the depositary may, with the Company’s approval, sell the property 
and distribute the net proceeds from the sale to the holders of the depositary shares in proportion to the 
number of depositary shares they hold.
Record dates for the payment of dividends and other matters relating to the depositary shares will be the same 
as the corresponding record dates for the Series A Preferred Stock.
The amounts distributed to holders of depositary shares will be reduced by any amounts required to be 
withheld by the depositary or by the Company on account of taxes or other governmental charges.
Redemption of Depositary Shares
If the Company redeems the Series A Preferred Stock represented by the depositary shares, the depositary 
shares will be redeemed from the proceeds received by the depositary resulting from the redemption of the 
-12-
Series A Preferred Stock held by the depositary. The redemption price per depositary share will be equal to 
1/1,000th of the redemption price per share payable with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock (or $25 per 
depositary share). Whenever the Company redeems shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by the depositary, 
the depositary will redeem, as of the same redemption date, the number of depositary shares representing 
shares of Series A Preferred Stock so redeemed.
In case of any redemption of less than all of the outstanding depositary shares, the depositary shares to be 
redeemed will be selected by the depositary pro rata or in such other manner determined by the depositary to 
be equitable. In any such case, the Company will redeem depositary shares only in increments of 1,000 shares 
and any multiple thereof.
Voting the Series A Preferred Stock
When the depositary receives notice of any meeting at which the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are 
entitled to vote, the depositary will mail the information contained in the notice to the record holders of the 
depositary shares relating to the Series A Preferred Stock. Each record holder of the depositary shares on the 
record date, which will be the same date as the record date for the Series A Preferred Stock, may instruct the 
depositary to vote the amount of the Series A Preferred Stock represented by the holder’s depositary shares. To 
the extent possible, the depositary will vote the amount of the Series A Preferred Stock represented by 
depositary shares in accordance with the instructions it receives. The Company will agree to take all 
reasonable actions that the depositary determines are necessary to enable the depositary to vote as instructed. 
If the depositary does not receive specific instructions from the holders of any depositary shares representing 
the Series A Preferred Stock, it will vote all depositary shares of that series held by it proportionately with 
instructions received.
Listing
The depositary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “GS PrA.”
Form of Preferred Stock and Depositary Shares
The depositary shares are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company. The Series A 
Preferred Stock is issued in registered form to the depositary.
-13-
DESCRIPTION OF THE DEPOSITARY SHARES, EACH REPRESENTING 1/1,000TH INTEREST IN A 
SHARE OF FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES C
DESCRIPTION OF SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK
The depositary is the sole holder of the Company’s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C 
(the “Series C Preferred Stock”), and all references herein to the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock shall 
mean the depositary. However, the holders of depositary shares are entitled, through the depositary, to 
exercise the rights and preferences of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, as described below under 
“Description of Depositary Shares.”
The following is a brief description of the material terms of the Series C Preferred Stock. The following 
summary of the terms and provisions of the Series C Preferred Stock does not purport to be complete and is 
qualified in its entirety by reference to the pertinent sections of the Company’s restated certificate of 
incorporation, which is an exhibit to the Annual Report of which this exhibit is a part. Unless the context 
otherwise provides, all references to the Company in this description refer only to The Goldman Sachs Group, 
Inc. and does not include its consolidated subsidiaries.
General
The Company’s authorized capital stock includes 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per 
share. The Series C Preferred Stock is part of a single series of the Company’s authorized preferred stock. The 
Company may from time to time, without notice to or the consent of holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, 
issue additional shares of the Series C Preferred Stock, up to the maximum number of authorized but unissued 
shares.
Shares of the Series C Preferred Stock rank senior to the Company’s common stock, equally with each other 
series of the Company’s preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and at least equally with each 
other series of preferred stock that the Company may issue (except for any senior series that may be issued 
with the requisite consent of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock), with respect to the payment of 
dividends and distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In addition, the Company will 
generally be able to pay dividends and distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up only out of 
lawfully available funds for such payment (i.e., after taking account of all indebtedness and other non-equity 
claims). The Series C Preferred Stock is fully paid and nonassessable, which means that its holders have paid 
their purchase price in full and that the Company may not ask them to surrender additional funds. Holders of 
Series C Preferred Stock do not have preemptive or subscription rights to acquire more stock of the Company.
The Series C Preferred Stock is not convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or series of 
stock or other securities of the Company, except under certain limited circumstances described below under “— 
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy.” The Series C Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and is 
not subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company to redeem or repurchase the Series C 
Preferred Stock. The Series C Preferred Stock represents non-withdrawable capital, is not a bank deposit and 
is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency, nor is it the obligation of, or guaranteed by, a 
bank.
Dividends
Dividends on shares of the Series C Preferred Stock are not mandatory. Holders of Series C Preferred Stock 
are entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Company’s board of directors or a duly authorized 
committee of the board, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-
cumulative cash dividends from the original issue date, quarterly in arrears on the 10th day of February, May, 
August, and November of each year (each, a “dividend payment date”). These dividends accrue, with respect 
to each dividend period, on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per 
depositary share) at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) 0.75% above LIBOR (as described below) on 
-14-
the related LIBOR determination date (as described below) or (2) 4.00%. In the event that the Company issues 
additional shares of Series C Preferred Stock after the original issue date, dividends on such shares may 
accrue from the original issue date or any other date the Company specifies at the time such additional shares 
are issued.
Dividends will be payable to holders of record of Series C Preferred Stock as they appear on the Company’s 
books on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before that dividend payment date or 
such other record date fixed by the Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) 
that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such dividend payment date (each, a “dividend record 
date”). These dividend record dates will apply regardless of whether a particular dividend record date is a 
business day. The corresponding record dates for the depositary shares are the same as the record dates for 
the Series C Preferred Stock.
A dividend period is the period from and including a dividend payment date to but excluding the next dividend 
payment date. Dividends payable on the Series C Preferred Stock are computed on the basis of a 360-day year 
and the actual number of days elapsed in the dividend period. If any date on which dividends would otherwise 
be payable is not a business day, then the dividend payment date will be the next succeeding business day 
unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the dividend payment date will be the 
immediately preceding day that is a business day.
For any dividend period, LIBOR shall be determined by the calculation agent on the second London business 
day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period in the following manner:
•
LIBOR will be the offered rate per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning 
on the first day of such period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 
11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London business day immediately preceding the first 
day of such dividend period.
•
If the rate described above does not appear on Moneyline Telerate page 3750, LIBOR will be 
determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second 
London business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period, at which 
deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by 
four major banks in that market selected by the calculation agent: three-month deposits in 
U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such dividend period, and in a Representative 
Amount. The calculation agent will request the principal London office of each of these banks 
to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for the second 
London business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period will be the 
arithmetic mean of the quotations.
•
If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, LIBOR for the second London 
business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period will be the arithmetic 
mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at 
approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time on the second London business day 
immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period, by three major banks in New York 
City selected by the calculation agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first 
day of such dividend period, and in a Representative Amount.
•
If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as described above, 
LIBOR for the new dividend period will be LIBOR in effect for the prior dividend period.
Under the FRB’s final rule and the LIBOR Act, on the first London business day following June 30, 2023, LIBOR 
was replaced with three-month term SOFR plus the statutorily prescribed tenor spread, with three-month term 
SOFR determined by the calculation agent on the second U.S. government securities business day 
immediately preceding the first day of the applicable dividend period.
The calculation agent’s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for 
any dividend period, will be on file at the Company’s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder 
upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
-15-
This subsection uses several terms that have special meanings relevant to calculating LIBOR. Those terms 
have the following meanings:
The term “Representative Amount” means an amount that, in the calculation agent’s judgment, is 
representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
The term “Moneyline Telerate Page” means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any successor service, 
on the page or pages specified herein or any replacement page or pages on that service.
The term “business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a 
day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive 
order to close.
The term “London business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and 
is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
Dividends on shares of Series C Preferred Stock are not cumulative. Accordingly, if the board of directors of the 
Company, or a duly authorized committee of the board, does not declare a dividend on the Series C Preferred 
Stock payable in respect of any dividend period before the related dividend payment date, such dividend will 
not accrue and the Company will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that dividend period on the dividend 
payment date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock are declared for 
any future dividend period.
So long as any share of Series C Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend shall be paid or declared 
on the Company’s common stock or any other shares of the Company’s junior stock (as defined below) (other 
than a dividend payable solely in junior stock), and no common stock or other junior stock shall be purchased, 
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Company, directly or indirectly (other than as a result 
of a reclassification of junior stock for or into other junior stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of 
junior stock for or into another share of junior stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a 
substantially contemporaneous sale of junior stock), during a dividend period, unless the full dividends for the 
latest completed dividend period on all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock have been declared and 
paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). However, the foregoing 
provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, or any of the Company’s other affiliates, to 
engage in any market-making transactions in the Company’s junior stock in the ordinary course of business.
As used in this description of the Series C Preferred Stock, “junior stock” means any class or series of stock of 
the Company that ranks junior to the Series C Preferred Stock either as to the payment of dividends or as to 
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Junior stock includes 
the Company’s common stock.
When dividends are not paid (or duly provided for) on any dividend payment date (or, in the case of parity 
stock, as defined below, having dividend payment dates different from the dividend payment dates pertaining to 
the Series C Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related dividend period for the 
Series C Preferred Stock) in full upon the Series C Preferred Stock and any shares of parity stock, all dividends 
declared upon the Series C Preferred Stock and all such equally ranking securities payable on such dividend 
payment date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the dividend 
payment dates pertaining to the Series C Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related 
dividend period for the Series C Preferred Stock) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of 
such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the 
Series C Preferred Stock and all parity stock payable on such dividend payment date (or, in the case of parity 
stock having dividend payment dates different from the dividend payment dates pertaining to the Series C 
Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related dividend period for the Series C Preferred 
Stock) bear to each other.
-16-
As used in this description of the Series C Preferred Stock, “parity stock” means any other class or series of 
stock of the Company that ranks equally with the Series C Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in 
the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the 
Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) may be declared and paid on the 
Company’s common stock and any other stock ranking equally with or junior to the Series C Preferred Stock 
from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the shares of the Series C Preferred 
Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
Liquidation Rights
Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, holders of the Series C 
Preferred Stock are entitled to receive out of assets of the Company available for distribution to stockholders, 
after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors, if any, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of common 
stock or of any of the Company’s other shares of stock ranking junior as to such a distribution to the shares of 
Series C Preferred Stock, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per 
depositary share) plus declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Company after they 
have received their full liquidation preference.
In any such distribution, if the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay the liquidation preferences in full 
to all holders of the Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any other shares of the Company’s stock 
ranking equally as to such distribution with the Series C Preferred Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of 
Series C Preferred Stock and to the holders of all such other stock will be paid pro rata in accordance with the 
respective aggregate liquidation preferences of those holders. In any such distribution, the “liquidation 
preference” of any holder of preferred stock means the amount payable to such holder in such distribution, 
including any declared but unpaid dividends (and any unpaid, accrued cumulative dividends in the case of any 
holder of stock on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis). If the liquidation preference has been paid in 
full to all holders of the Company’s Series C Preferred Stock and any other shares of the Company’s stock 
ranking equally as to the liquidation distribution, the holders of the Company’s other stock shall be entitled to 
receive all remaining assets of the Company according to their respective rights and preferences.
For purposes of this description of the Series C Preferred Stock, the merger or consolidation of the Company 
with any other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series C Preferred Stock 
receive cash, securities or property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of 
the assets of the Company for cash, securities or other property shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or 
winding up of the Company.
Redemption
The Series C Preferred Stock is not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar 
provisions. The Series C Preferred Stock is currently redeemable at the Company’s option, in whole or in part, 
upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days’ notice, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share 
(equivalent to $25 per depositary share), plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any 
undeclared dividends. Holders of Series C Preferred Stock have no right to require the redemption or 
repurchase of the Series C Preferred Stock.
If shares of the Series C Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the notice of redemption shall be given by first 
class mail to the holders of record of the Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed, mailed not less than 30 
days nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof (provided that, if the depositary 
shares representing the Series C Preferred Stock are held in book-entry form through The Depository Trust 
Company, or “DTC,” the Company may give such notice in any manner permitted by the DTC). Each notice of 
redemption will include a statement setting forth: (i) the redemption date, (ii) the number of shares of the Series 
-17-
C Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the 
number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder, (iii) the redemption price and (iv) the place or places 
where holders may surrender certificates evidencing shares of Series C Preferred Stock for payment of the 
redemption price. If notice of redemption of any shares of Series C Preferred Stock has been given and if the 
funds necessary for such redemption have been set aside by the Company for the benefit of the holders of any 
shares of Series C Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, from and after the redemption date, 
dividends will cease to accrue on such shares of Series C Preferred Stock, such shares of Series C Preferred 
Stock shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of the holders of such shares will terminate, except 
the right to receive the redemption price.
In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of the Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the 
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Company may 
determine to be fair and equitable.
See “Description of Depositary Shares” below for information about redemption of the depositary shares 
relating to the Company’s Series C Preferred Stock.
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy
The Company was previously regulated by the SEC as a consolidated supervised entity (“CSE”) pursuant to 
the SEC’s rules at that time relating to CSEs (referred to as the “CSE Rules”). The Company treated the Series 
C Preferred Stock as allowable capital in accordance with the CSE Rules (such capital is referred to below as 
“Allowable Capital”).
If the regulatory capital requirements that apply to the Company change in the future, the Series C Preferred 
Stock may be converted, at the Company’s option and without consent of the holders, into a new series of 
preferred stock, subject to the limitations described below. The Company will be entitled to exercise this 
conversion right as follows.
If both of the following occur:
•
the Company (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or 
guidance (together, “regulations”) relating to the Company’s capital adequacy, which 
regulation (i) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital, (ii) 
provides for a type or level of capital characterized as “Tier 1” or its equivalent pursuant to 
regulations of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the Company (or any of the 
Company’s subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing capital standards 
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the SEC, the Federal Reserve 
Board or any other United States national governmental body, or any other applicable regime 
based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its 
successor, or (iii) provides for a type of capital that in the Company’s judgment (after 
consultation with counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such “Tier 1” 
capital (such capital described in either (ii) or (iii) is referred to below as “Tier 1 Capital 
Equivalent”), and
•
the Company affirmatively elects to qualify the Series C Preferred Stock for such Allowable 
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative 
restriction on the inclusion of the Series C Preferred Stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 
Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Company elects to accept and any limitation 
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant 
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series C Preferred Stock shall be convertible at the Company’s option 
into a new series of preferred stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series C 
Preferred Stock, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers, and such limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary, in the Company’s 
judgment (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), to comply with the Required Unrestricted 
Capital Provisions (defined below), provided that the Company will not cause any such conversion unless the 
-18-
Company determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of such new series of preferred 
stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers of the Series C Preferred Stock, taken as a whole. For example, the Company 
could agree to restrict its ability to pay dividends on or redeem the new series of preferred stock for a specified 
period or indefinitely, to the extent permitted by the terms and provisions of the new series of preferred stock, 
since such a restriction would be permitted in the Company’s discretion under the terms and provisions of the 
Series C Preferred Stock.
The Company will provide notice to holders of the Series C Preferred Stock of any election to qualify the Series 
C Preferred Stock for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to 
convert the Series C Preferred Stock into a new series of preferred stock, promptly upon the effectiveness of 
any such election or determination. A copy of any such notice and of the relevant regulations will be on file at 
the Company’s principal offices and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder.
As used above, the term “Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions” means the terms that are, in the 
Company’s judgment (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be 
treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other 
quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent 
(other than any limitation the Company elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a 
specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) 
pursuant to applicable regulations.
Voting Rights
Except as provided below, the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock have no voting rights.
Whenever dividends on any shares of the Series C Preferred Stock shall have not been declared and paid for 
the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods (as used in 
this section, a “Nonpayment”), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all 
other series of voting preferred stock (as defined below) then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election 
of a total of two additional members of the Company’s board of directors (as used in this section, the “Preferred 
Stock Directors”), provided that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Company to violate the 
corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the 
Company’s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and 
provided further that the Company’s board of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock 
Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Company’s board of directors shall automatically 
increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders 
of record of at least 20% of the Series C Preferred Stock or of any other series of voting preferred stock (unless 
such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the 
stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of 
stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. These voting rights will continue until dividends on the 
shares of the Series C Preferred Stock and any such series of voting preferred stock for at least four dividend 
periods, whether or not consecutive, following the Nonpayment shall have been fully paid (or declared and a 
sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for payment).
As used in this description of the Series C Preferred Stock, “voting preferred stock” means any other class or 
series of preferred stock of the Company ranking equally with the Series C Preferred Stock either as to 
dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting 
rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of 
Series C Preferred Stock and any other voting preferred stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be 
determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.
If and when dividends for at least four dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, following a Nonpayment 
have been paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside), the 
-19-
holders of the Series C Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in 
the event of each subsequent Nonpayment) and, if such voting rights for all other holders of voting preferred 
stock have terminated, the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the 
number of directors on the board of directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether 
dividends have been paid for four dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Company may take account of 
any dividend the Company elects to pay for such a dividend period after the regular dividend date for that 
period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of 
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights 
described above (voting together as a class with all series of voting preferred stock then outstanding). So long 
as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the 
initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director 
remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the 
outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock and all voting preferred stock when they have the voting rights 
described above (voting together as a class). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote 
per director on any matter.
So long as any shares of Series C Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Company will not, without the 
affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Series C 
Preferred Stock and all other series of voting preferred stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a 
single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at a meeting:
•
amend or alter the provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation so as to 
authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any class or series of stock ranking 
senior to the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution 
of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company;
•
amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation so 
as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting 
powers of the Series C Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; or
•
consummate a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series C Preferred 
Stock or a merger or consolidation of the Company with another entity, unless in each case (i) 
the shares of Series C Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger 
or consolidation with respect to which the Company is not the surviving or resulting entity, are 
converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its 
ultimate parent, and (ii) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as 
the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a 
whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers of the Series C Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;
provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series C Preferred Stock or 
authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of 
other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to 
the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of 
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company will not be deemed to adversely affect the 
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series C Preferred Stock. In addition, any conversion of 
the Series C Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain regulatory events, as discussed above under “— 
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy,” will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, 
preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series C Preferred Stock.
If an amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above 
would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series C Preferred 
Stock for this purpose), then only the series affected and entitled to vote shall vote as a class in lieu of all such 
series of preferred stock.
-20-
Without the consent of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely 
affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series C Preferred Stock, the Company may 
amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series C Preferred Stock:
•
to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in the 
certificate of designation for the Series C Preferred Stock that may be defective or 
inconsistent; or
•
to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series C 
Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the certificate of designations.
The foregoing voting provisions will not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such 
vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall 
have been redeemed or called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside 
by the Company for the benefit of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock to effect such redemption.
DESCRIPTION OF DEPOSITARY SHARES
Please note that as used in this section, references to “holders” of depositary shares mean those who own 
depositary shares registered in their own names, on the books that the Company or the depositary maintain for 
this purpose, and not indirect holders who own beneficial interests in depositary shares registered in street 
name or issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company.
General
The Company has issued fractional interests in shares of preferred stock in the form of depositary shares, each 
representing a 1/1,000th ownership interest in a share of Series C Preferred Stock and evidenced by a 
depositary receipt. The shares of Series C Preferred Stock represented by depositary shares are deposited 
under a deposit agreement among the Company, the depositary and the holders from time to time of the 
depositary receipts evidencing the depositary shares. Subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, each 
holder of a depositary share is entitled, through the depositary, in proportion to the applicable fraction of a share 
of Series C Preferred Stock represented by such depositary share, to all the rights and preferences of the 
Series C Preferred Stock represented thereby (including dividend, voting, redemption and liquidation rights).
Dividends and Other Distributions
The depositary will distribute any cash dividends or other cash distributions received in respect of the deposited 
Series C Preferred Stock to the record holders of depositary shares relating to the underlying Series C 
Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of depositary shares held by the holders. The depositary will 
distribute any property received by it other than cash to the record holders of depositary shares entitled to those 
distributions, unless it determines that the distribution cannot be made proportionally among those holders or 
that it is not feasible to make a distribution. In that event, the depositary may, with the Company’s approval, sell 
the property and distribute the net proceeds from the sale to the holders of the depositary shares in proportion 
to the number of depositary shares they hold.
Record dates for the payment of dividends and other matters relating to the depositary shares will be the same 
as the corresponding record dates for the Series C Preferred Stock.
The amounts distributed to holders of depositary shares will be reduced by any amounts required to be 
withheld by the depositary or by the Company on account of taxes or other governmental charges.
Redemption of Depositary Shares
If the Company redeems the Series C Preferred Stock represented by the depositary shares, the depositary 
shares will be redeemed from the proceeds received by the depositary resulting from the redemption of the 
-21-
Series C Preferred Stock held by the depositary. The redemption price per depositary share will be equal to 
1/1,000th of the redemption price per share payable with respect to the Series C Preferred Stock (or $25 per 
depositary share). Whenever the Company redeems shares of Series C Preferred Stock held by the depositary, 
the depositary will redeem, as of the same redemption date, the number of depositary shares representing 
shares of Series C Preferred Stock so redeemed.
In case of any redemption of less than all of the outstanding depositary shares, the depositary shares to be 
redeemed will be selected by the depositary pro rata or in such other manner determined by the depositary to 
be equitable. In any such case, the Company will redeem depositary shares only in increments of 1,000 shares 
and any multiple thereof.
Voting the Series C Preferred Stock
When the depositary receives notice of any meeting at which the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock are 
entitled to vote, the depositary will mail the information contained in the notice to the record holders of the 
depositary shares relating to the Series C Preferred Stock. Each record holder of the depositary shares on the 
record date, which will be the same date as the record date for the Series C Preferred Stock, may instruct the 
depositary to vote the amount of the Series C Preferred Stock represented by the holder’s depositary shares. 
To the extent possible, the depositary will vote the amount of the Series C Preferred Stock represented by 
depositary shares in accordance with the instructions it receives. The Company will agree to take all 
reasonable actions that the depositary determines are necessary to enable the depositary to vote as instructed. 
If the depositary does not receive specific instructions from the holders of any depositary shares representing 
the Series C Preferred Stock, it will vote all depositary shares of that series held by it proportionately with 
instructions received.
Listing
The depositary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “GS PrC.”
Form of Preferred Stock and Depositary Shares
The depositary shares are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company. The Series C 
Preferred Stock is issued in registered form to the depositary.
-22-
DESCRIPTION OF THE DEPOSITARY SHARES, EACH REPRESENTING 1/1,000TH INTEREST IN A 
SHARE OF FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D
DESCRIPTION OF SERIES D PREFERRED STOCK
The depositary is the sole holder of the Company’s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D 
(the “Series D Preferred Stock”), and all references herein to the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock shall 
mean the depositary. However, the holders of depositary shares are entitled, through the depositary, to 
exercise the rights and preferences of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock, as described below under 
“Description of Depositary Shares.”
The following is a brief description of the material terms of the Series D Preferred Stock. The following 
summary of the terms and provisions of the Series D Preferred Stock does not purport to be complete and is 
qualified in its entirety by reference to the pertinent sections of the Company’s restated certificate of 
incorporation, which is an exhibit to the Annual Report of which this exhibit is a part. Unless the context 
otherwise provides, all references to the Company in this description refer only to The Goldman Sachs Group, 
Inc. and does not include its consolidated subsidiaries.
General
The Company’s authorized capital stock includes 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per 
share. The Series D Preferred Stock is part of a single series of authorized preferred stock. The Company may 
from time to time, without notice to or the consent of holders of the Series D Preferred Stock, issue additional 
shares of the Series D Preferred Stock, up to the maximum number of authorized but unissued shares.
Shares of the Series D Preferred Stock rank senior to the Company’s common stock, equally with each other 
series of the Company’s preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and at least equally with each 
other series of preferred stock that the Company may issue (except for any senior series that may be issued 
with the requisite consent of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock), with respect to the payment of 
dividends and distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In addition, the Company will 
generally be able to pay dividends and distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up only out of 
lawfully available funds for such payment (i.e., after taking account of all indebtedness and other non-equity 
claims). The Series D Preferred Stock is fully paid and nonassessable, which means that its holders have paid 
their purchase price in full and that the Company may not ask them to surrender additional funds. Holders of 
Series D Preferred Stock do not have preemptive or subscription rights to acquire more stock of the Company.
The Series D Preferred Stock is not convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or series of 
stock or other securities of the Company, except under certain limited circumstances described below under “— 
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy.” The Series D Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and is 
not subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company to redeem or repurchase the Series D 
Preferred Stock. The Series D Preferred Stock represents non-withdrawable capital, is not a bank deposit and 
is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency, nor is it the obligation of, or guaranteed by, a 
bank.
Dividends
Dividends on shares of the Series D Preferred Stock are not mandatory. Holders of Series D Preferred Stock 
are entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized 
committee of the board), out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-
cumulative cash dividends from the original issue date, quarterly in arrears on the 10th day of February, May, 
August, and November of each year (each, a “dividend payment date”). These dividends accrue, with respect 
to each dividend period, on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per 
depositary share) at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) 0.67% above LIBOR (as described below) on 
the related LIBOR determination date (as described below) or (2) 4.00%. In the event that the Company issues 
-23-
additional shares of Series D Preferred Stock after the original issue date, dividends on such shares may 
accrue from the original issue date or any other date the Company specifies at the time such additional shares 
are issued.
Dividends will be payable to holders of record of Series D Preferred Stock as they appear on the Company’s 
books on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before that dividend payment date or 
such other record date fixed by the Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) 
that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such dividend payment date (each, a “dividend record 
date”). These dividend record dates will apply regardless of whether a particular dividend record date is a 
business day. The corresponding record dates for the depositary shares are the same as the record dates for 
the Series D Preferred Stock.
A dividend period is the period from and including a dividend payment date to but excluding the next dividend 
payment date. Dividends payable on the Series D Preferred Stock are computed on the basis of a 360-day year 
and the actual number of days elapsed in the dividend period. If any date on which dividends would otherwise 
be payable is not a business day, then the dividend payment date will be the next succeeding business day 
unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the dividend payment date will be the 
immediately preceding day that is a business day.
For any dividend period, LIBOR shall be determined by the calculation agent on the second London business 
day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period in the following manner:
•
LIBOR will be the offered rate per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning 
on the first day of such period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 (or any 
successor or replacement page) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London 
business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period.
•
If the rate described above does not appear on Moneyline Telerate page 3750 (or any 
successor or replacement page), LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates, at 
approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London business day immediately 
preceding the first day of such dividend period, at which deposits of the following kind are 
offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market 
selected by the calculation agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first 
day of such dividend period, and in a Representative Amount. The calculation agent will 
request the principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If 
at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for the second London business day immediately 
preceding the first day of such dividend period will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations.
•
If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, LIBOR for the second London 
business day immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period will be the arithmetic 
mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at 
approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time on the second London business day 
immediately preceding the first day of such dividend period, by three major banks in New York 
City selected by the calculation agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first 
day of such dividend period, and in a Representative Amount.
•
If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as described above, 
LIBOR for the new dividend period will be LIBOR in effect for the prior dividend period.
Under the FRB’s final rule and the LIBOR Act, on the first London business day following June 30, 2023, LIBOR 
was replaced with three-month term SOFR plus the statutorily prescribed tenor spread, with three-month term 
SOFR determined by the calculation agent on the second U.S. government securities business day 
immediately preceding the first day of the applicable dividend period.
The calculation agent’s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for 
any dividend period, will be on file at the Company’s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder 
upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
-24-
This subscription uses several terms that have special meanings relevant to calculating LIBOR. Those terms 
have the following meanings:
The term “Representative Amount” means an amount that, in the calculation agent’s judgment, is 
representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
The term “Moneyline Telerate Page” means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any successor service, 
on the page or pages specified herein or any replacement page or pages on that service.
The term “business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a 
day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive 
order to close.
The term “London business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and 
is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
Dividends on shares of Series D Preferred Stock are not cumulative. Accordingly, if the board of directors of the 
Company (or a duly authorized committee of the board) does not declare a dividend on the Series D Preferred 
Stock payable in respect of any dividend period before the related dividend payment date, such dividend will 
not accrue and the Company will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that dividend period on the dividend 
payment date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock are declared for 
any future dividend period.
So long as any share of Series D Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend shall be paid or declared 
on the Company’s common stock or any other shares of the Company’s junior stock (as defined below) (other 
than a dividend payable solely in junior stock), and no common stock or other junior stock shall be purchased, 
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Company, directly or indirectly (other than as a result 
of a reclassification of junior stock for or into other junior stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of 
junior stock for or into another share of junior stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a 
substantially contemporaneous sale of junior stock), during a dividend period, unless the full dividends for the 
latest completed dividend period on all outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock have been declared and 
paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). However, the foregoing 
provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, or any of the Company’s other affiliates, to 
engage in any market-making transactions in the Company’s junior stock in the ordinary course of business.
As used in this description of the Series D Preferred Stock, “junior stock” means any class or series of stock of 
the Company that ranks junior to the Series D Preferred Stock either as to the payment of dividends or as to 
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Junior stock includes 
the Company’s common stock.
When dividends are not paid (or duly provided for) on any dividend payment date (or, in the case of parity 
stock, as defined below, having dividend payment dates different from the dividend payment dates pertaining to 
the Series D Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related dividend period for the 
Series D Preferred Stock) in full upon the Series D Preferred Stock and any shares of parity stock, all dividends 
declared upon the Series D Preferred Stock and all such equally ranking securities payable on such dividend 
payment date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the dividend 
payment dates pertaining to the Series D Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related 
dividend period for the Series D Preferred Stock) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of 
such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the 
Series D Preferred Stock and all parity stock payable on such dividend payment date (or, in the case of parity 
stock having dividend payment dates different from the dividend payment dates pertaining to the Series D 
Preferred Stock, on a dividend payment date falling within the related dividend period for the Series D Preferred 
Stock) bear to each other.
-25-
As used in this description of the Series D Preferred Stock, “parity stock” means any other class or series of 
stock of the Company that ranks equally with the Series D Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in 
the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the 
Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) may be declared and paid on the 
Company’s common stock and any other stock ranking equally with or junior to the Series D Preferred Stock 
from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the shares of the Series D Preferred 
Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
Liquidation Rights
Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, holders of the Series D 
Preferred Stock are entitled to receive out of assets of the Company available for distribution to stockholders, 
after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors, if any, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of common 
stock or of any of the Company’s other shares of stock ranking junior as to such a distribution to the shares of 
Series D Preferred Stock, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per 
depositary share) plus declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
Holders of the Series D Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Company after they 
have received their full liquidation preference.
In any such distribution, if the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay the liquidation preferences in full 
to all holders of the Series D Preferred Stock and all holders of any other shares of the Company’s stock 
ranking equally as to such distribution with the Series D Preferred Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of 
Series D Preferred Stock and to the holders of all such other stock will be paid pro rata in accordance with the 
respective aggregate liquidation preferences of those holders. In any such distribution, the “liquidation 
preference” of any holder of preferred stock means the amount payable to such holder in such distribution, 
including any declared but unpaid dividends (and any unpaid, accrued cumulative dividends in the case of any 
holder of stock on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis). If the liquidation preference has been paid in 
full to all holders of the Company’s Series D Preferred Stock and any other shares of the Company’s stock 
ranking equally as to the liquidation distribution, the holders of the Company’s other stock shall be entitled to 
receive all remaining assets of the Company according to their respective rights and preferences.
For purposes of this description of the Series D Preferred Stock, the merger or consolidation of the Company 
with any other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series D Preferred Stock 
receive cash, securities or property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of 
the assets of the Company for cash, securities or other property shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or 
winding up of the Company.
Redemption
The Series D Preferred Stock is not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar 
provisions. The Series D Preferred Stock is currently redeemable at the Company’s option, in whole or in part, 
upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days’ notice, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share 
(equivalent to $25 per depositary share), plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any 
undeclared dividends. Holders of Series D Preferred Stock have no right to require the redemption or 
repurchase of the Series D Preferred Stock.
If shares of the Series D Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the notice of redemption shall be given by first 
class mail to the holders of record of the Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed, mailed not less than 30 
days nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption thereof (provided that, if the depositary 
shares representing the Series D Preferred Stock are held in book-entry form through The Depository Trust 
Company, or “DTC,” the Company may give such notice in any manner permitted by the DTC). Each notice of 
redemption will include a statement setting forth: (i) the redemption date, (ii) the number of shares of the Series 
-26-
D Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the 
number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder, (iii) the redemption price and (iv) the place or places 
where holders may surrender certificates evidencing shares of Series D Preferred Stock for payment of the 
redemption price. If notice of redemption of any shares of Series D Preferred Stock has been given and if the 
funds necessary for such redemption have been set aside by the Company for the benefit of the holders of any 
shares of Series D Preferred Stock so called for redemption, then, from and after the redemption date, 
dividends will cease to accrue on such shares of Series D Preferred Stock, such shares of Series D Preferred 
Stock shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of the holders of such shares will terminate, except 
the right to receive the redemption price.
In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of the Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the 
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Company may 
determine to be fair and equitable.
See “Description of Depositary Shares” below for information about redemption of the depositary shares 
relating to the Company’s Series D Preferred Stock.
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy
The Company was previously regulated by the SEC as a consolidated supervised entity (“CSE”) pursuant to 
the SEC’s rules relating to CSEs (referred to as the “CSE Rules”). The Company treated the Series D Preferred 
Stock as allowable capital in accordance with the CSE Rules (such capital is referred to below as “Allowable 
Capital”).
If the regulatory capital requirements that apply to the Company change in the future, the Series D Preferred 
Stock may be converted, at the Company’s option and without consent of the holders, into a new series of 
preferred stock, subject to the limitations described below. The Company will be entitled to exercise this 
conversion right as follows.
If both of the following occur:
•
the Company (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or 
guidance (together, “regulations”) relating to the Company’s capital adequacy, which 
regulation (i) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital, (ii) 
provides for a type or level of capital characterized as “Tier 1” or its equivalent pursuant to 
regulations of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the Company (or any of the 
Company’s subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing capital standards 
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the SEC, the Federal Reserve 
Board or any other United States national governmental body, or any other applicable regime 
based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its 
successor, or (iii) provides for a type of capital that in the Company’s judgment (after 
consultation with counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such “Tier 1” 
capital (such capital described in either (ii) or (iii) is referred to below as “Tier 1 Capital 
Equivalent”), and
•
the Company affirmatively elects to qualify the Series D Preferred Stock for such Allowable 
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative 
restriction on the inclusion of the Series D Preferred Stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 
Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Company elects to accept and any limitation 
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant 
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series D Preferred Stock shall be convertible at the Company’s option 
into a new series of preferred stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series D 
Preferred Stock, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers, and such limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary, in the Company’s 
judgment (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), to comply with the Required Unrestricted 
Capital Provisions (defined below), provided that the Company will not cause any such conversion unless the 
-27-
Company determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of such new series of preferred 
stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers of the Series D Preferred Stock, taken as a whole. For example, the Company 
could agree to restrict its ability to pay dividends on or redeem the new series of preferred stock for a specified 
period or indefinitely, to the extent permitted by the terms and provisions of the new series of preferred stock, 
since such a restriction would be permitted in the Company’s discretion under the terms and provisions of the 
Series D Preferred Stock.
The Company will provide notice to holders of the Series D Preferred Stock of any election to qualify the Series 
D Preferred Stock for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to 
convert the Series D Preferred Stock into a new series of preferred stock, promptly upon the effectiveness of 
any such election or determination. A copy of any such notice and of the relevant regulations will be on file at 
the Company’s principal offices and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder.
As used above, the term “Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions” means the terms that are, in the 
Company’s judgment (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be 
treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other 
quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent 
(other than any limitation the Company elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a 
specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) 
pursuant to applicable regulations.
Voting Rights
Except as provided below, the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock have no voting rights.
Whenever dividends on any shares of the Series D Preferred Stock shall have not been declared and paid for 
the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods (as used in 
this section, a “Nonpayment”), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all 
other series of voting preferred stock (as defined below) then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election 
of a total of two additional members of the Company’s board of directors (as used in this section, the “Preferred 
Stock Directors”), provided that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Company to violate the 
corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the 
Company’s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and 
provided further that the Company’s board of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock 
Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Company’s board of directors shall automatically 
increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders 
of record of at least 20% of the Series D Preferred Stock or of any other series of voting preferred stock (unless 
such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the 
stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of 
stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. These voting rights will continue until dividends on the 
shares of the Series D Preferred Stock and any such series of voting preferred stock for at least four dividend 
periods, whether or not consecutive, following the Nonpayment shall have been fully paid (or declared and a 
sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for payment).
As used in this description of the Series D Preferred Stock, “voting preferred stock” means any other class or 
series of preferred stock of the Company ranking equally with the Series D Preferred Stock either as to 
dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting 
rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of 
Series D Preferred Stock and any other voting preferred stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be 
determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.
If and when dividends for at least four dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, following a Nonpayment 
have been paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside), the 
-28-
holders of the Series D Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in 
the event of each subsequent Nonpayment) and, if such voting rights for all other holders of voting preferred 
stock have terminated, the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the 
number of directors on the board of directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether 
dividends have been paid for four dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Company may take account of 
any dividend the Company elects to pay for such a dividend period after the regular dividend date for that 
period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of 
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series D Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights 
described above (voting together as a class with all series of voting preferred stock then outstanding). So long 
as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the 
initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director 
remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the 
outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock and all voting preferred stock when they have the voting rights 
described above (voting together as a class). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote 
per director on any matter.
So long as any shares of Series D Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Company will not, without the 
affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Series D 
Preferred Stock and all other series of voting preferred stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a 
single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at a meeting:
•
amend or alter the provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation so as to 
authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any class or series of stock ranking 
senior to the Series D Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution 
of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company;
•
amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation so 
as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting 
powers of the Series D Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; or
•
consummate a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series D Preferred 
Stock or a merger or consolidation of the Company with another entity, unless in each case (i) 
the shares of Series D Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger 
or consolidation with respect to which the Company is not the surviving or resulting entity, are 
converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its 
ultimate parent, and (ii) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as 
the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a 
whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, 
privileges and voting powers of the Series D Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;
provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series D Preferred Stock or 
authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of 
other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series D Preferred Stock with respect to 
the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of 
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company will not be deemed to adversely affect the 
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series D Preferred Stock. In addition, any conversion of 
the Series D Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain regulatory events, as discussed above under “— 
Regulatory Changes Relating to Capital Adequacy,” will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, 
preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series D Preferred Stock.
If an amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above 
would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series D Preferred 
Stock for this purpose), then only the series affected and entitled to vote shall vote as a class in lieu of all such 
series of preferred stock.
-29-
Without the consent of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely 
affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series D Preferred Stock, the Company may 
amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series D Preferred Stock:
•
to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in the 
certificate of designation for the Series D Preferred Stock that may be defective or 
inconsistent; or
•
to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series D 
Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the certificate of designations.
The foregoing voting provisions will not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such 
vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall 
have been redeemed or called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside 
by the Company for the benefit of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock to effect such redemption.
DESCRIPTION OF DEPOSITARY SHARES
Please note that as used in this section, references to “holders” of depositary shares mean those who own 
depositary shares registered in their own names, on the books that the Company or the depositary maintain for 
this purpose, and not indirect holders who own beneficial interests in depositary shares registered in street 
name or issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company.
General
The Company has issued fractional interests in shares of preferred stock in the form of depositary shares, each 
representing a 1/1,000th ownership interest in a share of Series D Preferred Stock and evidenced by a 
depositary receipt. The shares of Series D Preferred Stock represented by depositary shares are deposited 
under a deposit agreement among the Company, the depositary and the holders from time to time of the 
depositary receipts evidencing the depositary shares. Subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, each 
holder of a depositary share is entitled, through the depositary, in proportion to the applicable fraction of a share 
of Series D Preferred Stock represented by such depositary share, to all the rights and preferences of the 
Series D Preferred Stock represented thereby (including dividend, voting, redemption and liquidation rights).
Dividends and Other Distributions
The depositary will distribute any cash dividends or other cash distributions received in respect of the deposited 
Series D Preferred Stock to the record holders of depositary shares relating to the underlying Series D 
Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of depositary shares held by the holders. The depositary will 
distribute any property received by it other than cash to the record holders of depositary shares entitled to those 
distributions, unless it determines that the distribution cannot be made proportionally among those holders or 
that it is not feasible to make a distribution. In that event, the depositary may, with the Company’s approval, sell 
the property and distribute the net proceeds from the sale to the holders of the depositary shares in proportion 
to the number of depositary shares they hold.
Record dates for the payment of dividends and other matters relating to the depositary shares will be the same 
as the corresponding record dates for the Series D Preferred Stock.
The amounts distributed to holders of depositary shares will be reduced by any amounts required to be 
withheld by the depositary or by the Company on account of taxes or other governmental charges.
Redemption of Depositary Shares
If the Company redeems the Series D Preferred Stock represented by the depositary shares, the depositary 
shares will be redeemed from the proceeds received by the depositary resulting from the redemption of the 
-30-
Series D Preferred Stock held by the depositary. The redemption price per depositary share will be equal to 
1/1,000th of the redemption price per share payable with respect to the Series D Preferred Stock (or $25 per 
depositary share). Whenever the Company redeems shares of Series D Preferred Stock held by the depositary, 
the depositary will redeem, as of the same redemption date, the number of depositary shares representing 
shares of Series D Preferred Stock so redeemed.
In case of any redemption of less than all of the outstanding depositary shares, the depositary shares to be 
redeemed will be selected by the depositary pro rata or in such other manner determined by the depositary to 
be equitable. In any such case, the Company will redeem depositary shares only in increments of 1,000 shares 
and any multiple thereof.
Voting the Series D Preferred Stock
When the depositary receives notice of any meeting at which the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock are 
entitled to vote, the depositary will mail the information contained in the notice to the record holders of the 
depositary shares relating to the Series D Preferred Stock. Each record holder of the depositary shares on the 
record date, which will be the same date as the record date for the Series D Preferred Stock, may instruct the 
depositary to vote the amount of the Series D Preferred Stock represented by the holder’s depositary shares. 
To the extent possible, the depositary will vote the amount of the Series D Preferred Stock represented by 
depositary shares in accordance with the instructions it receives. The Company will agree to take all 
reasonable actions that the depositary determines are necessary to enable the depositary to vote as instructed. 
If the depositary does not receive specific instructions from the holders of any depositary shares representing 
the Series D Preferred Stock, it will vote all depositary shares of that series held by it proportionately with 
instructions received.
Listing
The depositary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “GS PrD.”
Form of Preferred Stock and Depositary Shares
The depositary shares are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company. The Series D 
Preferred Stock is issued in registered form to the depositary.
-31-
DESCRIPTION OF (i) 5.793% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NORMAL AUTOMATIC PREFERRED 
ENHANCED CAPITAL SECURITIES OF GOLDMAN SACHS CAPITAL II (FULLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY 
GUARANTEED BY THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.) AND (ii) FLOATING RATE NORMAL 
AUTOMATIC PREFERRED ENHANCED CAPITAL SECURITIES OF GOLDMAN SACHS CAPITAL III 
(FULLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED BY THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.)
The following is a brief description of the terms of the 5.793% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Automatic 
Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital II and the Floating Rate Normal Automatic 
Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital III (the “APEX”) and of the Trust Agreements 
(both as defined below) under which they are issued. It does not purport to be complete. Unless the context 
otherwise provides, all references to the Company in this description refer only to The Goldman Sachs Group, 
Inc. and does not include its consolidated subsidiaries.
The APEX and the Common Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital II (“Capital II”) and Goldman Sachs Capital 
III (“Capital III”), each a Delaware statutory trust (a “Trust”), represent beneficial interests in the relevant Trust. 
The Trust in respect of Capital II holds the Company’s Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E 
(the “Series E Preferred Stock”), and the Trust in respect of Capital III holds the Company’s Perpetual Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (the “Series F Preferred Stock,” and collectively with the Series E 
Preferred Stock, the “Preferred”).
Each holder of APEX has a beneficial interest in the relevant Trust but does not own any specific shares of the 
Preferred held by that Trust. However, the applicable trust agreement among the Company, The Bank of New 
York Mellon, BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, the administrative trustees and the several holders of the relevant 
Trust securities (each, a “Trust Agreement”) under which each Trust operates defines the financial entitlements 
of its APEX in a manner that causes those financial entitlements to correspond to the financial entitlements of 
that Trust in the Preferred it holds. Accordingly, each APEX of Capital II corresponds to 1/100th of a share of 
Series E Preferred Stock held by Capital II and each APEX of Capital III corresponds to 1/100th of a share of 
Series F Preferred Stock held by Capital III.
The Trusts
Each Trust is a statutory trust organized under Delaware law pursuant to a Trust Agreement and the filing of a 
certificate of trust with the Delaware Secretary of State.
The Trusts are used solely for the following purposes:
•
issuing the APEX and the Common Securities;
•
holding shares of the Preferred; and
•
engaging in other activities that are directly related to the activities described above.
The Company owns all of the Common Securities, either directly or indirectly. The Common Securities rank 
equally with the APEX and the Trusts make payment on their Trust securities pro rata, except that if the 
Company pays less than the full dividend on or redemption price of the Preferred, the rights of the holders of 
the Common Securities to payment in respect of distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and 
otherwise are subordinated to the rights of the holders of the APEX.
Each Trust is perpetual, but may be dissolved earlier as provided in its Trust Agreement.
The Company pays all fees and expenses related to the Trusts.
-32-
DESCRIPTION OF THE APEX
General
The APEX are securities of each Trust and are issued pursuant to the applicable Trust Agreement. The 
Property Trustee, The Bank of New York Mellon, acts as indenture trustee for the APEX under the Trust 
Agreement for purposes of compliance with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act. Each APEX has a 
liquidation amount of $1,000.
The terms of the APEX of each Trust include those stated in the Trust Agreement for such Trust, including any 
amendments thereto and those made part of the Trust Agreement by the Trust Indenture Act and the Delaware 
Statutory Trust Act.
In addition to the APEX, each Trust Agreement authorizes the administrative trustees of the Trust to issue the 
Common Securities on behalf of the Trust. The Company owns, directly or indirectly, all of the Common 
Securities. The Common Securities rank on a parity, and payments upon redemption, liquidation or otherwise 
are made on a proportionate basis, with the APEX except as set forth below under “— Ranking of Common 
Securities.” The Trust Agreements do not permit the Trust to issue any securities other than the Common 
Securities and the APEX or to incur any indebtedness.
Under the Trust Agreement, the Property Trustee on behalf of the relevant Trust holds the Preferred for the 
benefit of the holders of its APEX and Common Securities.
The payment of distributions out of money held by a Trust, and payments upon redemption of the APEX or 
liquidation of the Trust, are guaranteed by the Company to the extent described under “Description of the 
Guarantees.” Each Guarantee, when taken together with the Company’s obligations under the applicable Trust 
Agreement, including its obligations to pay costs, expenses, debts and liabilities of the Trust, other than with 
respect to its Common Securities and APEX, has the effect of providing a full and unconditional guarantee of 
amounts due on the APEX. The Bank of New York Mellon, as the Guarantee Trustee, holds each Guarantee for 
the benefit of the holders of the APEX. The Guarantees do not cover payment of distributions when the Trusts 
do not have sufficient available funds to pay those distributions.
When the term “holder” is used in this description of the APEX with respect to a registered APEX, it means the 
person in whose name such APEX is registered in the security register. The APEX are currently held in book-
entry form only, and are held in the name of DTC or its nominee.
Capital II’s APEX are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “GS/PE” and Capital III’s APEX 
are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “GS/PF.”
The financial entitlements as a holder of APEX generally correspond to the applicable Trust’s financial 
entitlements as a holder of the Preferred. The corresponding asset for each APEX is a 1/100th, or $1,000, 
interest in one share of Preferred held by the Trust. Each Trust will pass through to the holder amounts that it 
receives on the corresponding assets for the APEX as distributions on, or the liquidation preference of, APEX. 
Holders of a Trust’s APEX are be entitled to receive distributions corresponding to non-cumulative dividends on 
the Preferred held by the Trust. These cash dividends are payable if, as and when declared by the Company’s 
board of directors, on the Dividend Payment Dates (as defined below), which are: quarterly in arrears on each 
March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 (or if such day is not a business day, the next business day).
Assuming that the Company does not elect to pay partial dividends or to skip dividends on the Preferred, 
holders of APEX will receive distributions on the $1,000 liquidation amount per APEX at a rate per annum equal 
to the greater of (x) three-month LIBOR for the related distribution period plus 0.765% (in the case of Capital 
II’s APEX) or 0.77% (in the case of Capital III’s APEX) and (y) 4.000%, payable quarterly on each March 1, 
June 1, September 1 and December 1 (or if any such date is not a business day, on the next business day).
-33-
Dividends are calculated on the basis of a 360-day year and the number of days actually elapsed in the 
dividend period. Distributions on the APEX and dividends on the Preferred are non-cumulative.
The Bank of New York Mellon acts as registrar and transfer agent, or “Transfer Agent,” for the APEX. If The 
Bank of New York Mellon should resign or be removed, the Company or the Trust will designate a successor 
and the term “Transfer Agent” as used herein will refer to that successor. A “business day” as used in this 
section means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions and trust 
companies in New York, New York or Wilmington, Delaware are permitted or required by any applicable law to 
close.
Each Trust must make distributions on its APEX on each distribution date to the extent that it has funds 
available therefor. A Trust’s funds available for distribution to a holder of its APEX will be limited to payments 
received from the Company on the Preferred held by the Trust. The Company guarantees the payment of 
distributions on the APEX out of moneys held by each Trust to the extent of available Trust funds, as described 
under “Description of the Guarantees” below.
Distributions on the APEX are payable to holders as they appear in the security register of the Trust on the 
relevant record dates. The record dates are the fifteenth calendar day immediately preceding the next 
succeeding distribution date. Distributions are paid through the Property Trustee or paying agent, who hold 
amounts received in respect of the Preferred for the benefit of the holders of the APEX.
For more information about dividends on the Preferred, see “— Dividends” below.
Agreed Tax Treatment of the APEX
As a beneficial owner of APEX, by acceptance of the beneficial interest therein, the holder will be deemed to 
have agreed, for all U.S. federal income tax purposes:
•
to treat the holder as the owner of a 1/100th interest in a share of the relevant Preferred; and
•
to treat the Trust as one or more grantor trusts or agency arrangements.
Mandatory Redemption of APEX upon Redemption of the Preferred
The APEX have no stated maturity but must be redeemed on the date the Company redeems the Preferred, 
and the Property Trustee or paying agent will apply the proceeds from such repayment or redemption to 
redeem a like amount, as defined below, of the APEX. The Preferred is perpetual but the Company may 
redeem it on any Dividend Payment Date, subject to certain limitations. See “— Redemption” below. The 
redemption price per APEX will equal the redemption price of the Preferred. See “— Redemption” below. If 
notice of redemption of any Preferred has been given and if the funds necessary for the redemption have been 
set aside by the Company for the benefit of the holders of any shares of the Preferred so called for redemption, 
then, from and after the redemption date, those shares shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of 
the holders of those shares (including the right to receive any dividends) will terminate, except the right to 
receive the redemption price.
If less than all of the shares of the Preferred held by the Trust are to be redeemed on a redemption date, then 
the proceeds from such redemption will be allocated pro rata to the redemption of the APEX and the Common 
Securities, except as set forth below under “— Ranking of Common Securities.”
The term “like amount” as used above means APEX having a liquidation amount equal to that portion of the 
liquidation amount of the Preferred to be contemporaneously redeemed, the proceeds of which will be used to 
pay the redemption price of such APEX.
Distributions to be paid on or before the redemption date for any APEX called for redemption will be payable to 
the holders as of the record dates for the related dates of distribution. If the APEX called for redemption are no 
-34-
longer in book-entry form, the Property Trustee, to the extent funds are available, will irrevocably deposit with 
the paying agent for the APEX funds sufficient to pay the applicable redemption price and will give such paying 
agent irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the redemption price to the holders thereof upon surrender 
of their certificates evidencing the APEX.
If notice of redemption shall have been given and funds deposited as required, then upon the date of such 
deposit:
•
all rights of the holders of such APEX called for redemption will cease, except the right of the 
holders of such APEX to receive the redemption price and any distribution payable in respect 
of the APEX on or prior to the redemption date, but without interest on such redemption price; 
and
•
the APEX called for redemption will cease to be outstanding. If any redemption date is not a 
business day, then the redemption amount will be payable on the next business day (and 
without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay). However, if payment on 
the next business day causes payment of the redemption amount to be in the next calendar 
month, then payment will be on the preceding business day.
If payment of the redemption amount for the Preferred held by a Trust called for redemption is improperly 
withheld or refused and accordingly the redemption amount of the Trust’s APEX is not paid either by the Trust 
or by the Company under the applicable Guarantee, then dividends on the Preferred called for redemption will 
continue to accrue and distributions on such series of APEX called for redemption will continue to accumulate 
at the applicable rate then borne by such APEX from the original redemption date scheduled to the actual date 
of payment. In this case, the actual payment date will be considered the redemption date for purposes of 
calculating the redemption amount.
Redemptions of the APEX will require prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.
The Company will not exercise its option to redeem any shares of the Preferred without obtaining the approval 
of the Federal Reserve Board (or any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as required by applicable 
law. Unless the Federal Reserve Board (or any successor appropriate federal banking agency) authorizes the 
Company to do otherwise in writing, the Company will redeem the Preferred only if it is replaced with other tier 
1 capital that is not a restricted core capital element (e.g., common stock or another series of noncumulative 
perpetual preferred stock).
If less than all of the outstanding shares of the Preferred held by a Trust are to be redeemed on a redemption 
date, then the aggregate liquidation amount of APEX and Common Securities of that Trust to be redeemed 
shall be allocated pro rata to the APEX and Common Securities based upon the relative liquidation amounts of 
such series, except as set forth below under “— Ranking of Common Securities.” The Property Trustee will 
select the particular APEX to be redeemed on a pro rata basis not more than 60 days before the redemption 
date from the outstanding APEX not previously called for redemption by any method the Property Trustee 
deems fair and appropriate, or if the APEX are in book-entry only form, in accordance with the procedures of 
DTC. The Property Trustee shall promptly notify the Transfer Agent in writing of the APEX selected for 
redemption and, in the case of any APEX selected for redemption in part, the liquidation amount to be 
redeemed.
For all purposes of the Trust Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the 
redemption of APEX shall relate, in the case of any APEX redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the 
portion of the aggregate liquidation amount of APEX that has been or is to be redeemed. If less than all of the 
APEX, the APEX held through the facilities of DTC will be redeemed pro rata in accordance with DTC’s internal 
procedures.
Liquidation Distribution upon Dissolution
Pursuant to each Trust Agreement, the applicable Trust shall dissolve on the first to occur of:
-35-
•
certain events of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation of the Company;
•
redemption of all of its APEX as described above; and
•
the entry of an order for the dissolution of the Trust by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Except as set forth in the next paragraph, if an early dissolution occurs as a result of certain events of 
bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Property Trustee and the administrative trustees will 
liquidate the Trust as expeditiously as they determine possible by distributing, after satisfaction of liabilities to 
creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to each holder of its APEX a like amount of the Preferred 
held by the Trust as of the date of such distribution. Except as set forth in the next paragraph, if an early 
dissolution occurs as a result of the entry of an order for the dissolution of the Trust by a court of competent 
jurisdiction, the Property Trustee will liquidate the Trust as expeditiously as it determines to be possible by 
distributing, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to each holder 
of its APEX a like amount of the Preferred held by the Trust as of the date of such distribution. The Property 
Trustee shall give notice of liquidation to each holder of APEX at least 30 days and not more than 60 days 
before the date of liquidation.
If, whether because of an order for dissolution entered by a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, the 
Property Trustee determines that distribution of the Preferred in the manner provided above is not possible, or if 
the early dissolution occurs as a result of the redemption of all the APEX, the Property Trustee shall liquidate 
the property of the Trust and wind up its affairs. In that case, upon the winding up of the Trust, except with 
respect to an early dissolution that occurs as a result of the redemption of all the APEX, the holders will be 
entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to holders and after satisfaction of 
liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, an amount equal to the aggregate liquidation 
amount per Trust security plus accrued and unpaid distributions to the date of payment. If, upon any such 
winding up, the Trust has insufficient assets available to pay in full such aggregate liquidation distribution, then 
the amounts payable directly by the Trust on its Trust securities shall be paid on a pro rata basis, except as set 
forth below under “— Ranking of Common Securities.”
The term “like amount” as used above means Preferred having a liquidation preference equal to the liquidation 
amount of the APEX of the holder to whom such Preferred would be distributed.
Distribution of Trust Assets
Upon liquidation of a Trust other than as a result of an early dissolution upon the redemption of all the APEX 
and after satisfaction of the liabilities of creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, the assets of the 
Trust will be distributed to the holders of such Trust securities in exchange therefor.
After the liquidation date fixed for any distribution of assets of the Trust:
•
the APEX will no longer be deemed to be outstanding;
•
DTC or its nominee, as the record holder of the APEX, will receive a registered global 
certificate or certificates representing the Preferred to be delivered upon such distribution;
•
any certificates representing the APEX not held by DTC or its nominee will be deemed to 
represent shares of the Preferred having a Liquidation Preference equal to the APEX until 
such certificates are so surrendered for transfer and reissuance; and
•
all rights of the holders of the APEX will cease, except the right to receive Preferred upon such 
surrender.
Since each APEX corresponds to 1/100th of a share of Preferred, holders of APEX may receive fractional 
shares of the Preferred or depositary shares representing the Preferred upon this distribution.
-36-
Ranking of Common Securities
If on any distribution date a Trust does not have funds available from dividends on the Preferred it holds to 
make full distributions on its APEX and Common Securities, then the available funds from dividends on the 
Preferred it holds shall be applied first to make distributions then due on its APEX on a pro rata basis on such 
distribution date up to the amount of such distributions corresponding to dividends on the Preferred (or if less, 
the amount of the corresponding distributions that would have been made on the APEX had the Company paid 
a full dividend on the Preferred) before any such amount is applied to make a distribution on the Trust’s 
Common Securities on such distribution date.
If on any date where APEX and Common Securities must be redeemed because the Company is redeeming 
Preferred and a Trust does not have funds available from the Company’s redemption of the Preferred it holds to 
pay the full redemption price then due on all of its outstanding APEX and Common Securities to be redeemed, 
then (i) the available funds shall be applied first to pay the redemption price on the APEX to be redeemed on 
such redemption date and (ii) Common Securities shall be redeemed only to the extent funds are available for 
such purpose after the payment of the full redemption price on the APEX to be redeemed.
If an early dissolution event occurs in respect of a Trust, no liquidation distributions shall be made on its 
Common Securities until full liquidation distributions have been made on its APEX.
In the case of any event of default under the Trust Agreement of a Trust resulting from the Company’s failure to 
comply in any material respect with any of its obligations as issuer of the Preferred held by the Trust, including 
obligations set forth in its restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, or “restated certificate of 
incorporation,” or arising under applicable law, the Company, as holder of its Common Securities, will be 
deemed to have waived any right to act with respect to any such event of default under the Trust Agreement 
until the effect of all such events of default with respect to its APEX have been cured, waived or otherwise 
eliminated. Until all events of default under the Trust Agreement have been so cured, waived or otherwise 
eliminated, the Property Trustee shall act solely on behalf of the holders of its APEX and not on the Company’s 
behalf, and only the holders of its APEX will have the right to direct the Property Trustee to act on their behalf.
Events of Default; Notice
Any one of the following events constitutes an event of default under a Trust Agreement, or a “Trust Event of 
Default,” regardless of the reason for such event of default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be 
effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or 
regulation of any administrative or governmental body:
•
the failure to comply in any material respect with the Company’s obligations as issuer of the 
Preferred, under its restated certificate of incorporation, or those of the Trust, or arising under 
applicable law;
•
the default by the Trust in the payment of any distribution on any Trust security of the Trust 
when such becomes due and payable, and continuation of such default for a period of 30 
days;
•
the default by the Trust in the payment of any redemption price of any Trust security of the 
Trust when such becomes due and payable;
•
the failure to perform or the breach, in any material respect, of any other covenant or warranty 
of the trustees in the Trust Agreement for 90 days after the defaulting trustee or trustees have 
received written notice of the failure to perform or breach in the manner specified in such Trust 
Agreement; or
•
the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Property 
Trustee and the Company’s failure to appoint a successor Property Trustee within 90 days.
-37-
Within 30 days after any Trust Event of Default with respect to a Trust actually known to the Property Trustee 
occurs, the Property Trustee will transmit notice of such Trust Event of Default to the holders of its APEX and to 
the administrative trustees, unless such Trust Event of Default shall have been cured or waived. The Company, 
as sponsor, and the administrative trustees are required to file annually with the Property Trustee a certificate 
as to whether or not the Company or the administrative trustees are in compliance with all the conditions and 
covenants applicable to the Company and to the administrative trustees under the Trust Agreement.
Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations or Replacements of a Trust
A Trust may not merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by, or convey, transfer or lease its 
properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the Company or any other person, except as described 
below or as otherwise described in its Trust Agreement. A Trust may, at the Company’s request, with the 
consent of the administrative trustees but without the consent of the holders of its APEX, the Property Trustee 
or the Delaware Trustee, merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by, or convey, transfer or 
lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to, a trust organized as such under the laws of any 
state if:
•
such successor entity either:
•
expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Trust with respect to its APEX, or
•
substitutes for its APEX other securities having substantially the same terms as its 
APEX, or the “Successor Securities,” so long as the Successor Securities rank the 
same as its APEX in priority with respect to distributions and payments upon 
liquidation, redemption and otherwise;
•
a trustee of such successor entity possessing the same powers and duties as the Property 
Trustee is appointed to hold the Preferred then held by or on behalf of the Property Trustee;
•
such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does 
not cause its APEX, including any Successor Securities, to be downgraded by any nationally 
recognized statistical rating organization;
•
such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does 
not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the holders of its APEX, including 
any Successor Securities, in any material respect;
•
such successor entity has purposes substantially identical to those of the Trust;
•
prior to such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or 
lease, the Property Trustee has received an opinion from counsel to the Trust experienced in 
such matters to the effect that:
•
such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or 
lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the holders of 
its APEX, including any Successor Securities, in any material respect, and
•
following such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, 
transfer or lease, neither the Trust nor such successor entity will be required to 
register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or 
“Investment Company Act”;
•
the Trust has received an opinion of counsel experienced in such matters that such merger, 
consolidation, amalgamation, conveyance, transfer or lease will not cause the Trust or the 
successor entity to be classified as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as 
a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and
-38-
•
the Company or any permitted successor or assignee owns all of the common securities of 
such successor entity and guarantees the obligations of such successor entity under the 
Successor Securities at least to the extent provided by the Guarantee.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Trust may not, except with the consent of holders of 100% in liquidation 
amount of its APEX, consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or 
lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any other entity or permit any other entity to 
consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or replace it if such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, 
replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease would cause the Trust or the successor entity to be classified as 
other than one or more grantor trusts or agency arrangements or to be classified as an association or a publicly 
traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Voting Rights; Amendment of a Trust Agreement
Except as provided herein and under “— Amendments and Assignment” below and as otherwise required by 
law and the Trust Agreement, the holders of a Trust’s APEX have no voting rights or control over the 
administration, operation or management of the Trust or the obligations of the parties to its Trust Agreement, 
including in respect of the Preferred held by the Trust. Under the Trust Agreement, however, the Property 
Trustee is required to obtain their consent before exercising some of its rights in respect of these securities.
Trust Agreement. The Company and the administrative trustees may amend a Trust’s Trust Agreement 
without the consent of the holders of its APEX, the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, unless in the 
case of the first two bullets below such amendment will materially and adversely affect the interests of any 
holder of APEX or the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee or impose any additional duty or obligation on 
the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, to:
•
cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provisions in the Trust Agreement that may be 
inconsistent with any other provision, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters 
or questions arising under the Trust Agreement, which may not be inconsistent with the other 
provisions of the Trust Agreement;
•
modify, eliminate or add to any provisions of the Trust Agreement to such extent as shall be 
necessary to ensure that the Trust will be classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as 
one or more grantor trusts or agency arrangements and not as an association or a publicly 
traded partnership taxable as a corporation at all times that any Trust securities are 
outstanding, or to ensure that the Trust will not be required to register as an “investment 
company” under the Investment Company Act;
•
provide that certificates for the APEX may be executed by an administrative trustee by 
facsimile signature instead of manual signature, in which case such amendment(s) shall also 
provide for the appointment by the Company of an authentication agent and certain related 
provisions;
•
require that holders that are not U.S. persons for U.S. federal income tax purposes irrevocably 
appoint a U.S. person to exercise any voting rights to ensure that the Trust will not be treated 
as a foreign trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or
•
conform the terms of the Trust Agreement to the description of the Trust Agreement, the APEX 
and the Common Securities in the prospectus dated December 5, 2006, of the Company and 
the Trusts, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement, dated May 8, 2007, in the manner 
provided in the Trust Agreement.
Any such amendment shall become effective when notice thereof is given to the Property Trustee, the 
Delaware Trustee and the holders of the APEX.
The Company and the administrative trustees may generally amend a Trust’s Trust Agreement with:
-39-
•
the consent of holders representing not less than a majority, based upon liquidation amounts, 
of its APEX; and
•
receipt by the administrative trustees of the Trust of an opinion of counsel to the effect that 
such amendment or the exercise of any power granted to the administrative trustees of the 
Trust or the administrative trustees in accordance with such amendment will not affect the 
Trust’s status as one or more grantor trusts or agency arrangements for U.S. federal income 
tax purposes or affect the Trust’s exemption from status as an “investment company” under 
the Investment Company Act.
However, without the consent of each affected holder of Trust securities, a Trust Agreement may not be 
amended to:
•
change the amount or timing, or otherwise adversely affect the amount, of any distribution 
required to be made in respect of Trust securities as of a specified date; or
•
restrict the right of a holder of Trust securities to institute a suit for the enforcement of any 
such payment on or after such date.
Preferred Stock. So long as Preferred is held by the Property Trustee on behalf of a Trust, the trustees of the 
Trust will not waive any rights in respect of the Preferred without obtaining the prior approval of the holders of at 
least a majority in liquidation amount of its APEX then outstanding. The trustees of the Trust shall also not 
consent to any amendment to the Trust’s or the Company’s governing documents that would change the dates 
on which dividends are payable or the amount of such dividends, without the prior written consent of each 
holder of APEX. In addition to obtaining the foregoing approvals from holders, the administrative trustees shall 
obtain, at the Company’s expense, an opinion of counsel to the effect that such action shall not cause the Trust 
to be taxable as a corporation or classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
General. Any required approval of holders of APEX may be given at a meeting of holders convened for such 
purpose or pursuant to written consent. The Property Trustee will cause a notice of any meeting at which 
holders are entitled to vote, or of any matter upon which action by written consent of such holders is to be 
taken, to be given to each record holder in the manner set forth in the Trust Agreement.
No vote or consent of the holders of APEX will be required for a Trust to redeem and cancel the APEX in 
accordance with a Trust Agreement.
Notwithstanding that holders of the APEX are entitled to vote or consent under any of the circumstances 
described above, any of the APEX that are owned by the Company or its affiliates or the trustees shall be 
deemed not to be outstanding.
Payment and Paying Agent
Payments on the APEX shall be made to DTC, which shall credit the relevant accounts on the applicable 
distribution dates. If any APEX are not held by DTC, such payments shall be made by check mailed to the 
address of the holder as such address shall appear on the register.
The paying agent is The Bank of New York Mellon and any co-paying agent chosen by the Property Trustee 
and acceptable to the Company and to the administrative trustees.
Registrar and Transfer Agent
The Bank of New York Mellon acts as registrar and transfer agent, or “Transfer Agent,” for the APEX.
-40-
Information Concerning the Property Trustee
Other than during the occurrence and continuance of a Trust Event of Default, the Property Trustee undertakes 
to perform only the duties that are specifically set forth in the Trust Agreement. After a Trust Event of Default, 
the Property Trustee must exercise the same degree of care and skill as a prudent individual would exercise or 
use in the conduct of his or her own affairs. Subject to this provision, the Property Trustee is under no obligation 
to exercise any of the powers vested in it by the Trust Agreement at the request of any holder of APEX unless it 
is offered indemnity satisfactory to it by such holder against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be 
incurred. If no Trust Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Property Trustee is required to 
decide between alternative courses of action, construe ambiguous provisions in the Trust Agreement or is 
unsure of the application of any provision of the Trust Agreement, and the matter is not one upon which holders 
of APEX are entitled under the Trust Agreement to vote, then the Property Trustee will take any action that the 
Company directs. If the Company does not provide direction, the Property Trustee may take any action that it 
deems advisable and in the interests of the holders of the Trust securities and will have no liability except for its 
own bad faith, negligence or willful misconduct.
The Company and its affiliates may maintain certain accounts and other banking relationships with the Property 
Trustee and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business.
Trust Expenses
Pursuant to each Trust Agreement, the Company, as sponsor, agrees to pay:
•
all debts and other obligations of the Trust (other than with respect to its APEX);
•
all costs and expenses of the Trust, including costs and expenses relating to the organization 
of the Trust, the fees, expenses and indemnities of the trustees and the cost and expenses 
relating to the operation of the Trust; and
•
any and all taxes and costs and expenses with respect thereto, other than U.S. withholding 
taxes, to which the Trust might become subject.
Governing Law
Each Trust Agreement is governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Miscellaneous
The administrative trustees are authorized and directed to conduct the affairs of and to operate each Trust in 
such a way that it will not be required to register as an “investment company” under the Investment Company 
Act or characterized as other than one or more grantor trusts or agency arrangements for U.S. federal income 
tax purposes.
In this regard, the Company and the administrative trustees are authorized to take any action, not inconsistent 
with applicable law, the certificate of trust of a Trust or its Trust Agreement, that the Company and the 
administrative trustees determine to be necessary or desirable to achieve such end, as long as such action 
does not materially and adversely affect the interests of the holders of the APEX.
Holders of the APEX have no preemptive or similar rights. The APEX are not convertible into or exchangeable 
for the Company’s common stock or preferred stock.
Subject to any applicable rules of the Federal Reserve Board (or any successor appropriate federal banking 
agency), the Company or its affiliates may from time to time purchase any of the APEX that are then 
outstanding by tender, in the open market or by private agreement.
-41-
The Trust may not borrow money or issue debt or mortgage or pledge any of its assets.
DESCRIPTION OF THE GUARANTEES
The following is a brief description of the terms of the Guarantee (as defined below) pursuant to the Guarantee 
Agreement for Goldman Sachs Capital II (formerly known as Goldman Sachs Capital IV), dated as of March 23, 
2016, and the Guarantee Agreement for Goldman Sachs Capital III (formerly known as Goldman Sachs Capital 
V), dated as of March 23, 2016 (collectively, the “Guarantee Agreements”). The description does not purport to 
be complete.
General
The following payments on each Trust’s APEX, also referred to as the “guarantee payments,” if not fully paid by 
the Trust, will be paid by the Company under a guarantee, or “Guarantee,” that the Company has executed and 
delivered for the benefit of the holders of such APEX. Pursuant to each Guarantee, the Company irrevocably 
and unconditionally agrees to pay in full the guarantee payments, without duplication:
•
any accumulated and unpaid distributions required to be paid on the APEX, to the extent the 
Trust has funds available to make the payment;
•
the redemption price for any APEX called for redemption, to the extent the Trust has funds 
available to make the payment; and
•
upon a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding up or liquidation of the Trust, other than in 
connection with a distribution of a like amount of corresponding assets to the holders of the 
APEX, the lesser of:
•
the aggregate of the liquidation amount and all accumulated and unpaid distributions 
on the APEX to the date of payment, to the extent the Trust has funds available to 
make the payment; and
•
the amount of assets of the Trust remaining available for distribution to holders of the 
APEX upon liquidation of the Trust.
The Company’s obligation to make a guarantee payment may be satisfied by direct payment of the required 
amounts by the Company to the holders of the APEX or by causing the Trust to pay the amounts to the holders.
If the Company does not make a regular dividend payment on the Preferred held by a Trust, the Trust will not 
have sufficient funds to make the related payments on the relevant series of APEX. The Guarantee does not 
cover payments on the APEX when the Trust does not have sufficient funds to make these payments. Because 
the Company is a holding company, its rights to participate in the assets of any of its subsidiaries upon the 
subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors except to 
the extent that the Company may itself be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The 
Guarantee does not limit the incurrence or issuance by the Company of other secured or unsecured 
indebtedness.
Each Guarantee is qualified as an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act. The Bank of New York Mellon acts 
as “Guarantee Trustee” for each Guarantee for purposes of compliance with the provisions of the Trust 
Indenture Act. The Guarantee Trustee holds each Guarantee for the benefit of the holders of APEX.
Effect of the Guarantees
Each Guarantee, when taken together with the Company’s obligations and the Trust’s obligations under the 
Trust Agreement, including the obligations to pay costs, expenses, debts and liabilities of the applicable Trust, 
other than with respect to its Trust securities, has the effect of providing a full and unconditional guarantee, on a 
subordinated basis, of payments due on its APEX.
-42-
The Company has also agreed separately to irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee the obligations of each 
Trust with respect to its Common Securities to the same extent as the Guarantee.
Status of the Guarantees
Each Guarantee is unsecured and ranks:
•
subordinate and junior in right of payment to all of the Company’s senior and subordinated 
debt; and
•
equally with any of the Company’s other present or future obligations that by their terms rank 
pari passu with such Guarantee.
Each Guarantee constitutes a guarantee of payment and not of collection, which means that the guaranteed 
party may sue the guarantor to enforce its rights under the Guarantee without suing any other person or entity. 
Each Guarantee is held for the benefit of the holders of APEX. Each Guarantee will be discharged only by 
payment of the guarantee payments in full to the extent not paid by the applicable Trust.
Amendments and Assignment
A Guarantee may be amended only with the prior approval of the holders of not less than a majority in 
aggregate liquidation amount of the applicable outstanding APEX. No vote is required, however, for any 
changes that do not adversely affect the rights of holders of APEX in any material respect. All guarantees and 
agreements contained in the Guarantee bind the Company’s successors, assignees, receivers, trustees and 
representatives and are for the benefit of the holders of the applicable APEX then outstanding.
Termination of the Guarantees
A Guarantee will terminate:
•
upon full payment of the redemption price of all applicable APEX; or
•
upon full payment of the amounts payable in accordance with the Trust Agreement upon 
liquidation of the Trust.
A Guarantee will continue to be effective or will be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any holder of 
APEX must restore payment of any sums paid under the APEX or the Guarantee.
Events of Default
An event of default under a Guarantee will occur if the Company fails to perform any payment obligation or if 
the Company fails to perform any other obligation under the Guarantee and such default remains unremedied 
for 30 days.
The holders of a majority in liquidation amount of the applicable APEX have the right to direct the time, method 
and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee in respect of a 
Guarantee or to direct the exercise of any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under the 
Guarantee. Any holder of APEX may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Company to enforce the 
Guarantee Trustee’s rights and the Company’s obligations under a Guarantee, without first instituting a legal 
proceeding against the Trust, the Guarantee Trustee or any other person or entity.
As guarantor, the Company is required to file annually with the Guarantee Trustee a certificate as to whether or 
not the Company is in compliance with all applicable conditions and covenants under the Guarantee.
-43-
Information Concerning the Guarantee Trustee
Prior to the occurrence of an event of default relating to a Guarantee, the Guarantee Trustee is required to 
perform only the duties that are specifically set forth in the Guarantees. Following the occurrence of an event of 
default, the Guarantee Trustee will exercise the same degree of care as a prudent individual would exercise in 
the conduct of his or her own affairs. Provided that the foregoing requirements have been met, the Guarantee 
Trustee is under no obligation to exercise any of the powers vested in it by the Guarantees at the request of 
any holder of APEX, unless offered indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which 
might be incurred thereby.
The Company and its affiliates may maintain certain accounts and other banking relationships with the 
Guarantee Trustee and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business.
Governing Law
The Guarantees are governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Limited Purpose of Trust
The Trust securities evidence beneficial interests in the Trust. A principal difference between the rights of a 
holder of a Trust security and a holder of Preferred is that a holder of Preferred would be entitled to receive 
from the issuer the dividends, redemption payments and payment upon liquidation in respect of Preferred while 
a holder of Trust securities is entitled to receive distributions from a Trust, or from the Company under a 
Guarantee, if and to the extent the Trust has funds available for the payment of such distributions.
Rights upon Dissolution
Upon any voluntary or involuntary dissolution of the Trust, holders of each series of APEX will receive the 
distributions described under “— Liquidation Distribution upon Dissolution” above. Upon any voluntary or 
involuntary liquidation or bankruptcy of the Company, the holders of the Preferred would be preferred 
shareholders of the Company, entitled to the preferences upon liquidation described under “Description of the 
Preferred” below. Since the Company is the guarantor under the Guarantee and has agreed to pay for all costs, 
expenses and liabilities of the Trust, other than the Trust’s obligations to the holders of the Trust securities, the 
positions of a holder of APEX relative to other creditors and to the Company’s shareholders in the event of 
liquidation or bankruptcy are expected to be substantially the same as if that holder held the corresponding 
assets of the Trust directly.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED
The following is a brief description of the terms of the Preferred held by the relevant Trust. This summary does 
not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the Company’s restated 
certificate of incorporation, which is an exhibit to the Annual Report of which this exhibit is a part.
General
The Company’s authorized capital stock includes 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per 
share (including the Preferred).
Shares of the Preferred rank senior to the Company’s common stock, equally with each other series of the 
Company’s preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2020, and at least equally with each other series of 
preferred stock that the Company may issue (except for any senior series that may be issued with the requisite 
consent of the holders of the Preferred), with respect to the payment of dividends and distributions of assets 
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The Preferred is fully paid and nonassessable, which means that its 
holders have paid their purchase price in full and that the Company may not ask them to surrender additional 
-44-
funds. Holders of the Preferred do not have preemptive or subscription rights to acquire more preferred stock of 
the Company. The Preferred is not convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or series of 
stock or other securities of the Company. The Preferred has no stated maturity and is not subject to any sinking 
fund or other obligation of the Company to redeem or repurchase the Preferred.
The Preferred has a fixed liquidation preference of $100,000 per share. If the Company liquidates, dissolves or 
winds up its affairs, holders of the Preferred will be entitled to receive, out of the Company’s assets that are 
available for distribution to shareholders, an amount per share equal to the liquidation preference per share, 
plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without regard to any undeclared dividends.
Unless the Trust is dissolved prior to the redemption of the Preferred, holders of APEX will not receive shares of 
the Preferred, and their interest in the Preferred will be represented by their APEX. If the Trust is dissolved, the 
Company may elect to distribute depositary shares representing the Preferred instead of fractional shares. 
Since the Preferred is held by the Property Trustee, holders of APEX are only able to exercise voting or other 
rights with respect to the Preferred through the Property Trustee.
Dividends
Dividends on shares of the Preferred are not mandatory. Holders of the Preferred are entitled to receive, when, 
as and if declared by the Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board), out of 
funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from 
the date of their issuance. These dividends are payable on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of 
each year (each, for purposes of this section, a “Dividend Payment Date”), with respect to the Dividend Period, 
or portion thereof, ending on the day preceding the respective Dividend Payment Date, at a rate per annum 
equal to the greater of (x) three-month LIBOR for the related distribution period plus 0.765% (in the case of the 
Series E Preferred Stock) or 0.77% (in the case of the Series F Preferred Stock) and (y) 4.000%.
Dividends are payable to holders of record of the Preferred as they appear on the Company’s books on the 
applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before that Dividend Payment Date or such other 
record date fixed by the Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) that is not 
more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, for purposes of this section, a 
“Dividend Record Date”). These Dividend Record Dates apply regardless of whether a particular Dividend 
Record Date is a business day.
A “Dividend Period” is the period from and including a Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next 
Dividend Payment Date. If any that would otherwise be a Dividend Payment Date is not a business day, then 
the next business day will be the applicable Dividend Payment Date.
The amount of dividends payable per share of the Preferred on each Dividend Payment Date is calculated by 
multiplying the per annum Dividend Rate in effect for that Dividend Period by a fraction, the numerator of which 
is the actual number of days in that Dividend Period and the denominator of which is 360, and multiplying the 
rate obtained by $100,000.
For any Dividend Period, LIBOR shall be determined by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, as calculation agent for 
the Preferred, on the second London business day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, 
as the case may be, in the following manner:
•
LIBOR will be the offered rate per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning 
on the first day of such period, as that rate appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 (or any 
successor or replacement page) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London 
business day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period or Interest Period, 
as the case may be.
•
If the rate described above does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 (or any successor or 
replacement page), LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 
-45-
11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London business day immediately preceding the first 
day of such Dividend Period or Interest Period, as the case may be, at which deposits of the 
following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks 
in that market selected by the calculation agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, 
beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period or Interest Period, as the case may be, and 
in a Representative Amount. The calculation agent will request the principal London office of 
each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided, 
LIBOR for the second London business day immediately preceding the first day of such 
Dividend Period or Interest Period, as the case may be, will be the arithmetic mean of the 
quotations.
•
If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, LIBOR for the second London 
business day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period or Interest Period, 
as the case may be, will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to 
leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time on the 
second London business day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period or 
Interest Period, as the case may be, by three major banks in New York City selected by the 
calculation agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such 
Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.
•
If fewer than three banks selected by the calculation agent are quoting as described above, 
LIBOR for the new Dividend Period will be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend Period or 
Interest Period, as the case may be.
The calculation agent’s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for 
any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Company’s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder 
upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
This subsection uses several terms that have special meanings relevant to calculating LIBOR. Those terms 
have the following meanings:
The term “Representative Amount” means an amount that, in the calculation agent’s judgment, is 
representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
“Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page” means the display designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or such other page 
as may replace that page on that service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers’ 
Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits).
The term “business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a 
day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive 
order to close.
The term “London business day” means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and 
is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market. If the Company 
determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend, the Company will provide prior written notice to the 
Property Trustee, who will notify holders of APEX, and the administrative trustees.
Dividends on the Preferred are not cumulative. Accordingly, if the board of directors of the Company (or a duly 
authorized committee of the board) does not declare a dividend on the Preferred payable in respect of any 
Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Company will 
have no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future 
time, whether or not dividends on the Preferred are declared for any future Dividend Period.
So long as any share of Preferred remains outstanding, no dividend shall be paid or declared on the 
Company’s common stock or any other shares of the Company’s junior stock (as defined below) (other than a 
dividend payable solely in junior stock), and no common stock or other junior stock shall be purchased, 
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Company, directly or indirectly (other than as a result 
of a reclassification of junior stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of 
-46-
junior stock for or into another share of junior stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a 
substantially contemporaneous sale of junior stock), during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the 
latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Preferred have been declared and paid (or 
declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). However, the foregoing provision 
shall not restrict the ability of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, or any of the Company’s other affiliates, to engage in 
any market-making transactions in the Company’s junior stock in the ordinary course of business.
As used in this description of the Preferred, “junior stock” means any class or series of stock of the Company 
that ranks junior to the Preferred either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon 
any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company’s junior stock includes the Company’s common stock.
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend 
Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock, as defined below, having Dividend Payment Dates different from 
the Dividend Payment Dates pertaining to the Preferred, on a Dividend Payment Date falling within the related 
Dividend Period for the Preferred) in full upon the Preferred and any shares of parity stock, all dividends 
declared upon the Preferred and all such equally ranking securities payable on such Dividend Payment Date 
(or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the dividend payment dates 
pertaining to the Preferred, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period for the 
Preferred) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio 
to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Preferred and all parity stock payable on 
such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the 
dividend payment dates pertaining to the Preferred, on a dividend payment date falling within the related 
Dividend Period for the Preferred) bear to each other.
As used in this description of the Preferred, “parity stock” means any other class or series of stock of the 
Company that ranks equally with the Preferred in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on 
any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the 
Company’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) may be declared and paid on the 
Company’s common stock and any other stock ranking equally with or junior to the Preferred from time to time 
out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the shares of the Preferred shall not be entitled to 
participate in any such dividend.
Redemption
The Preferred may be redeemed (but subject to applicable regulatory limits) in whole or in part, at the 
Company’s option. Any such redemption will be at a cash redemption price of $100,000 per share, plus any 
declared and unpaid dividends including, without regard to any undeclared dividends. Holders of Preferred 
have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of the Preferred. If notice of redemption of any Preferred 
has been given and if the funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Company for the 
benefit of the holders of any shares of the Preferred so called for redemption, then, from and after the 
redemption date, those shares shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of the holders of those 
shares (including the right to receive any dividends) will terminate, except the right to receive the redemption 
price.
If fewer than all of the outstanding shares of the Preferred are to be redeemed, the shares to be redeemed will 
be selected either pro rata from the holders of record of shares of the Preferred in proportion to the number of 
shares held by those holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Company’s board of directors or a 
committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable.
The Company will mail notice of every redemption of Preferred by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed 
to the holders of record of the Preferred to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the 
Company’s books. This mailing will be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for 
-47-
redemption (provided that if the Preferred is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Company may give this 
notice in any manner permitted by DTC). Any notice mailed or otherwise given as provided in this paragraph 
will be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives this notice, and 
failure duly to give this notice by mail or otherwise, or any defect in this notice or in the mailing or provision of 
this notice, to any holder of Preferred designated for redemption will not affect the redemption of any other 
Preferred. If the Company redeems the Preferred, the Trust, as holder of the Preferred, will redeem the 
corresponding APEX as described under “— Mandatory Redemption of APEX upon Redemption of Preferred.”
Each notice shall state:
•
the redemption date;
•
the number of shares of the Preferred to be redeemed and, if less than all shares of the 
Preferred held by the holder are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed from 
the holder;
•
the redemption price; and
•
the place or places where the Preferred is to be redeemed.
The Company’s right to redeem the Preferred once issued is subject to prior approval of the Federal Reserve 
Board (or any successor banking agency).
Liquidation Rights
Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, holders of the 
Preferred are entitled to receive out of assets of the Company available for distribution to stockholders, after 
satisfaction of liabilities to creditors, if any, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of common stock 
or of any of the Company’s other shares of stock ranking junior as to such a distribution to the shares of the 
Preferred, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $100,000 per share, plus declared and unpaid dividends, 
without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. Holders of the Preferred are not entitled to any other 
amounts from the Company after they have received their full liquidation preference.
In any such distribution, if the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay the liquidation preferences in full 
to all holders of the Preferred and all holders of any other shares of the Company’s stock ranking equally as to 
such distribution with the Preferred, the amounts paid to the holders of the Preferred and to the holders of all 
such other stock will be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of 
those holders. In any such distribution, the “liquidation preference” of any holder of preferred stock means the 
amount payable to such holder in such distribution, including any declared but unpaid dividends (and any 
unpaid, accrued cumulative dividends in the case of any holder of stock on which dividends accrue on a 
cumulative basis). If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Preferred and any other 
shares of the Company’s stock ranking equally as to the liquidation distribution, the holders of the Company’s 
other stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Company according to their respective rights 
and preferences.
For purposes of this description of the Preferred, the merger or consolidation of the Company with any other 
entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Preferred receive cash, securities or property 
for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company for cash, 
securities or other property shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Voting Rights
Except as provided below, the holders of the Preferred have no voting rights.
-48-
Whenever dividends on any shares of the Preferred shall have not been declared and paid for a period the 
equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not consecutive, equivalent to at least 18 months 
Dividend Periods (as used in this section, a “Nonpayment”), the holders of such shares, voting together as a 
class with holders of any and all other series of voting preferred stock (as defined below) then outstanding, will 
be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Company’s board of directors (as 
used in this section, the “Preferred Stock Directors”), provided that the election of any such director shall not 
cause the Company to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any 
other exchange on which the Company’s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority 
of independent directors and provided further that the Company’s board of directors shall at no time include 
more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Company’s board of 
directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called 
at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Preferred or of any other series of voting preferred 
stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special 
meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting 
of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. These voting rights will continue until dividends on 
the shares of the Preferred and any such series of voting preferred stock for at least one year four Dividend 
Periods, whether or not consecutive, following the Nonpayment shall have been fully paid (or declared and a 
sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for payment).
As used in this description of the Preferred, “voting preferred stock” means any other class or series of 
preferred stock of the Company ranking equally with the Preferred either as to dividends or the distribution of 
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and 
are exercisable. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of the Preferred and any other 
voting preferred stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the 
liquidation amounts of the shares voted.
If and when dividends for at least four Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, following a Nonpayment 
have been paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside), the 
holders of the Preferred shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of 
each subsequent Nonpayment) and, if such voting rights for all other holders of voting preferred stock have 
terminated, the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of 
directors on the board of directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have 
been paid for at least four Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, the Company may take account of any 
dividend the Company elects to pay for a Dividend Period after the regular dividend date for that period has 
passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a 
majority of the outstanding shares of the Preferred when they have the voting rights described above (voting 
together as a class with all series of voting preferred stock then outstanding). So long as a Nonpayment shall 
continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a 
Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none 
remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Preferred and 
all voting preferred stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). The 
Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
So long as any shares of the Preferred remain outstanding, the Company will not, without the affirmative vote 
or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Preferred and all other series of 
voting preferred stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, 
either in writing or at a meeting:
•
authorized amount of, any class or series of stock ranking senior to the Preferred with respect 
to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up 
of the Company;
•
amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation so 
as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting 
powers of the Preferred, taken as a whole; or
-49-
•
consummate a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Preferred or a merger 
or consolidation of the Company with another entity, unless in each case (i) the shares of the 
Preferred remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect 
to which the Company is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged 
for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (ii) such 
shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such 
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less 
favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of 
the Preferred, taken as a whole;
provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Preferred or other authorized 
preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series 
of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Preferred with respect to the payment of dividends 
(whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, 
dissolution or winding up of the Company will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, 
privileges or voting powers of the Preferred.
If an amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above 
would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Preferred for this 
purpose), then only the series affected and entitled to vote shall vote as a class in lieu of all such series of 
preferred stock.
Without the consent of the holders of the Preferred, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, 
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Preferred, the Company may amend, alter, supplement or 
repeal any terms of the Preferred:
•
to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in the 
certificate of designations for the Preferred that may be defective or inconsistent; or
•
to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the 
Preferred that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the certificate of designations.
The foregoing voting provisions do not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such 
vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of the Preferred shall have been 
redeemed or called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside by the 
Company for the benefit of the holders of the Preferred to effect such redemption.
Form
The Preferred are issued only in fully registered form. Other than the fractional shares currently held by each 
Trust, no fractional shares will be issued unless a Trust is dissolved and the Company delivers the shares, 
rather than depositary receipts representing the shares, to the registered holders of its APEX. If a Trust is 
dissolved and depositary receipts or shares of the Preferred held by the Trust are distributed to holders of its 
APEX, the Company would intend to distribute them in book-entry form only and the procedures governing 
holding and transferring beneficial interests in the Preferred, and the circumstances in which holders of 
beneficial interests will be entitled to receive certificates evidencing their shares or depositary receipts. If the 
Company determines to issue depositary shares representing fractional interests in the Preferred, each 
depositary share will be represented by a depositary receipt. In such an event, the Preferred represented by the 
depositary shares will be deposited under a deposit agreement among the Company, a depositary and the 
holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing depositary shares. Subject to the terms and 
conditions of any deposit agreement, each holder of a depositary share will be entitled, through the depositary, 
in proportion to the applicable fraction of a share of the Preferred represented by such depositary share, to all 
the rights applicable fraction of a share of the Preferred represented by such depositary share, to all the rights 
and preferences of the Preferred represented thereby (including dividends, voting, redemption and liquidation 
rights).
-50-
Title
The Company, the transfer agent and registrar for the Preferred held by a Trust, and any of their agents may 
treat the registered owner of the Preferred, which shall be the Property Trustee unless and until the Trust is 
dissolved, as the absolute owner of that stock, whether or not any payment for the Preferred shall be overdue 
and despite any notice to the contrary, for any purpose.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
If a Trust is dissolved and shares of the Preferred held by the Trust or depositary receipts representing the 
Preferred are distributed to holders of APEX, the Company may appoint a transfer agent, registrar, calculation 
agent, redemption agent and dividend disbursement agent for the Preferred. The registrar for the Preferred will 
send notices to shareholders of any meetings at which holders of the Preferred have the right to vote on any 
matter.
-51-
DESCRIPTION OF MEDIUM-TERM NOTES, SERIES F, CALLABLE FIXED AND FLOATING RATE NOTES 
DUE MARCH 2031 OF GS FINANCE CORP. (FULLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED BY THE 
GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.)
The following is a brief description of the terms of the Callable Fixed and Floating Rate Notes, an issuance of 
Medium-Term Notes, Series F of GS Finance Corp. (“GSFC”) (the “Callable Notes”), which are fully and 
unconditionally guaranteed by the Company. It does not purport to be complete. This description is subject to 
and qualified in its entirety by reference to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2008, among 
GSFC, as issuer, the Company, as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, as supplemented 
by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2015, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated 
as of August 21, 2018 and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 1, 2020 (collectively, the 
“GSFC 2008 Indenture”), which are exhibits to the Annual Report of which this exhibit is a part. Unless the 
context otherwise provides, all references to the Company in this description refer only to The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc. and does not include its consolidated subsidiaries.
The GSFC 2008 indenture permits GSFC to issue, from time to time, different series of debt securities and, 
within each different series of debt securities, different debt securities. The Medium-Term Notes, Series F are a 
single, distinct series of debt securities. GSFC may, however, issue notes in such amounts, at such times and 
on such terms as GSFC wishes. The notes of the Medium-Term Notes, Series F may differ from one another, 
and from other series, in their terms. 
In this description, references to a series of debt securities mean a series issued under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture, such as the notes issued under GSFC’s Medium-Term Notes, Series F program.
Terms of the Callable Notes
The Callable Notes were originally issued on March 11, 2021 and have a stated maturity date of March 11, 
2031 (the “stated maturity date”). As noted above, the Callable Notes are part of a series of debt securities, 
entitled “Medium-Term Notes, Series F,” that GSFC may issue under the GSFC 2008 Indenture from time to 
time. The Callable Notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Bonds Market under the ticker symbol 
“GS/31B.”
The payment of principal of, and any interest and premium on, the Callable Notes is fully and unconditionally 
guaranteed by the Company. The guarantee will remain in effect until the entire principal of, and interest and 
premium, if any, on, the Callable Notes has been paid in full or discharged in accordance with the provisions of 
the GSFC 2008 Indenture, or otherwise fully defeased by GSFC or by the Company. The guarantee of senior 
debt securities of GSFC, such as the Callable Notes, will rank equally in right of payment to all senior 
indebtedness of the Company.
Payment of Principal on Stated Maturity Date
GSFC will pay holders of Callable Notes that have not been redeemed by the stated maturity date an amount in 
cash equal to the outstanding face amount of such holders’ Callable Notes. The stated maturity date of the 
Callable Notes is March 11, 2031, subject to GSFC’s early redemption right. If the stated maturity date falls on 
a day that is not a business day, payment of principal otherwise due on such day will be made on the next 
succeeding business day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after the stated 
maturity date.
Interest Payments
For each fixed rate interest period, the fixed interest rate on the Callable Notes will equal 5% per annum. For 
each floating rate interest period, the floating interest rate on the Callable Notes will be based upon the CMS 
spread on the relevant interest determination date for such floating rate interest period and will be a rate per 
annum equal to: 
-52-
•
if (i) the CMS spread minus 0.25% times (ii) 6.5 is greater than or equal to the maximum 
interest rate, the maximum interest rate;
•
if (i) the CMS spread minus 0.25% times (ii) 6.5 is less than the maximum interest rate but 
greater than the minimum interest rate, (i) the CMS spread minus 0.25% times (ii) 6.5; or
•
if (i) the CMS spread minus 0.25% times (ii) 6.5 is equal to or less than the minimum interest 
rate, the minimum interest rate.
The maximum interest rate on the Callable Notes is 10% per annum. Based on the formula used to calculate 
the floating interest rate on the Callable Notes, holders will not benefit from any increases in the CMS spread 
minus 0.25% above approximately 1.54%. The minimum interest rate on the Callable Notes is 0% per annum.
The term “fixed rate interest periods” means the periods from and including a fixed rate interest payment date 
(or the original issue date, in the case of the first fixed rate interest period) to but excluding the next succeeding 
fixed rate interest payment date, where the term “fixed rate interest payment dates” means March 11, June 11, 
September 11 and December 11 of each year, commencing on June 11, 2021 and ending on March 11, 2022, 
subject to adjustments as described below.
The term “floating rate interest periods” means the periods from and including a floating rate interest payment 
date (or the final fixed rate interest payment date, in the case of the first floating rate interest period) to but 
excluding the next succeeding floating rate interest payment date (or the stated maturity date, in the case of the 
final floating rate interest period), where the term “floating rate interest payment dates” means March 11, June 
11, September 11 and December 11 of each year, beginning on June 11, 2022 and ending on the stated 
maturity date, subject to adjustments as described below.
The term “interest determination dates” means, for each floating rate interest period, the second U.S. 
government securities business day preceding such floating rate interest period.
The term “CMS spread” means, on any interest determination date, the 30-year CMS rate minus the 5-year 
CMS rate, as described under “— CMS Rate” below.
The calculation agent will calculate the amount of interest payable on each fixed rate interest payment date and 
floating rate interest payment date (each, an “interest payment date”) for the applicable fixed rate interest 
period and floating rate interest period (each, an “interest period”) in the following manner. For each $1,000 
face amount of the Callable Notes and for each interest period, the calculation agent will calculate the amount 
of interest to be paid by calculating the product of (i) the $1,000 face amount times (ii) the applicable fixed 
interest rate or floating interest rate times (iii) the applicable day count convention on a 30/360 (ISDA) basis.
Interest will be paid on the Callable Notes on each quarterly interest payment date. If an interest payment date 
(other than the interest payment date that falls on the stated maturity date) falls on a day that is not a business 
day, the payment due on such interest payment date will be postponed to the next day that is a business day; 
provided that interest due with respect to such interest payment date shall not accrue from and including such 
interest payment date to and including the date of payment of such interest as so postponed. If the stated 
maturity date falls on a day that is not a business day, payment of interest otherwise due on such day will be 
made on the next succeeding business day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from 
and after the stated maturity date.
CMS Rate
References to the 30-year CMS rate or the 5-year CMS rate on an interest determination date mean the rate 
appearing on the Refinitiv page ICESWAP1 for 30-year or 5-year index maturity, as the case may be, as of 
approximately 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on such interest determination date. If a CMS rate cannot be 
determined in this manner on the relevant interest determination date, the following procedures will apply to the 
Callable Notes.
-53-
If the calculation agent determines on an interest determination date that a CMS rate has been discontinued, 
then the calculation agent will use a substitute or successor rate that it has determined in its sole discretion is 
most comparable to the applicable CMS rate, provided that if the calculation agent determines there is an 
industry-accepted successor rate, then the calculation agent shall use such successor rate. If the calculation 
agent has determined a substitute or successor rate in accordance with the foregoing, the calculation agent in 
its sole discretion may determine the business day convention, the applicable business days and the interest 
determination dates to be used, and any other relevant methodology for calculating such substitute or 
successor rate, including any adjustment factor needed to make such substitute or successor rate comparable 
to the applicable CMS rate, in a manner that is consistent with any industry-accepted practices for such 
substitute or successor rate.
Unless the calculation agent uses a substitute or successor rate as so provided, if the CMS rate cannot be 
determined in the manner described above, the applicable CMS rate for that interest determination date will be 
determined by the calculation agent, after consulting such sources as it deems comparable to the foregoing 
display page, or any other source it deems reasonable, in its sole discretion.
The applicable CMS rate will be subject to the corrections, if any, published on the Refinitiv page ICESWAP1 
within one hour of the time that rate was first displayed on such source.
The term “Refinitiv page ICESWAP1” means the display on the Refinitiv Eikon service, or any successor or 
replacement service, on the page ICESWAP1, or any successor or replacement page on that service.
Manner of Payment
Any payment on the Callable Notes at maturity or upon redemption will be made to an account designated by 
the holder of such Callable Notes and approved by GSFC, or at the office of the trustee in New York City, but 
only when such Callable Notes are surrendered to the trustee at that office. GSFC may pay interest on any 
interest payment date by check mailed to the person who is the holder on the regular record date. GSCF also 
may make any payment in accordance with the applicable procedures of the depositary.
Modified Business Day
Any payment on the Callable Notes that would otherwise be due on a day that is not a business day may 
instead be paid on the next day that is a business day, with the same effect as if paid on the original due date. 
For the Callable Notes, however, the term business day may have a different meaning than it does for other 
Series F medium-term notes, as described under “— Special Calculation Provisions” below.
Role of Calculation Agent
The calculation agent in its sole discretion will make all determinations regarding the CMS spread, the 30-year 
CMS rate, the 5-year CMS rate, the interest determination dates, the regular record dates, the interest payable 
on each interest payment date, U.S. government securities business days, business days, postponement of the 
stated maturity date and the amount payable on the Callable Notes at maturity or redemption, as applicable. 
Absent manifest error, all determinations of the calculation agent will be final and binding on holders of the 
Callable Notes and GSFC, without any liability on the part of the calculation agent.
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (“GS&Co.”), an affiliate of GSFC, is currently serving as the calculation agent as of 
the date of this description. GSFC may change the calculation agent for the Callable Notes at any time after the 
date of this prospectus supplement without notice and GS&Co. may resign as calculation agent at any time 
upon 60 days’ written notice to GSFC.
-54-
Early Redemption Right
GSFC may redeem the Callable Notes, at GSFC’s option, in whole but not in part, on the interest payment date 
falling on March 11, 2022 and on each interest payment date occurring thereafter, for an amount equal to 100% 
of the face amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
If GSFC chooses to exercise its early redemption right, it will notify the holder of the Callable Notes and the 
trustee by giving at least five business days’ prior notice. The day GSFC gives the notice, which will be a 
business day, will be the redemption notice date and the immediately following interest payment date, which 
GSFC will state in the redemption notice, will be the redemption date. GSFC will not give a redemption notice 
that results in a redemption date later than the stated maturity date.
If GSFC gives the holder a redemption notice, GSFC will redeem the entire outstanding face amount of such 
holder’s Callable Notes. On the redemption date, GSFC will pay to the holder of record on the business day 
immediately preceding the redemption date, the redemption price in cash, together with any accrued and 
unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date, in the manner described under “— Manner of Payment” 
above.
Special Calculation Provisions
The term “business day” with respect to the Callable Notes means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or 
obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
References to a U.S. government securities business day with respect to the Callable Notes mean any day 
except for a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
recommends that the fixed income department of its members be closed for the entire day for purposes of 
trading in U.S. government securities.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
The provisions for full defeasance and covenant defeasance in the GSFC 2008 Indenture do not apply to the 
Callable Notes.
Default, Remedies and Waiver of Default
A holder will have special rights if an event of default with respect to his or her series of debt securities occurs 
and is continuing, as described in this subsection.
Events of Default
References to an event of default with respect to any series of debt securities mean any of the following:
•
GSFC or the Company does not pay the principal or any premium on any debt security of that 
series within 30 days after the due date;
•
GSFC or the Company does not pay interest on any debt security of that series within 30 days 
after the due date; or
•
GSFC files for bankruptcy or other events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating 
to GSFC occur. Those events must arise under U.S. federal or state law, unless GSFC 
merges, consolidates or sells its assets as described above and the successor firm is a non-
U.S. entity. If that happens, then those events must arise under U.S. federal or state law or the 
law of the jurisdiction in which the successor firm is legally organized.
-55-
As described below under “Remedies If an Event of Default Occurs,” under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, events 
of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to the Company will not cause any of GSFC’s debt 
securities issued under such indenture to be automatically accelerated. In the event that the Company 
becomes subject to certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization (but GSFC does not), any series 
of debt securities issued under the GSFC 2008 Indenture will not be immediately due and repayable. In 
addition, under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, a breach of a covenant or warranty by the Company (including, for 
example, a breach of the Company’s covenants and warranties with respect to mergers and similar 
transactions or restrictions on liens) will not have the potential to cause any of GSFC’s debt securities issued 
under the GSFC 2008 Indenture to be declared due and payable immediately. Instead, under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture, the trustee or holder will need to wait until the earlier of the time that (i) GSFC itself becomes subject 
to certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or otherwise defaults on the terms of the debt 
securities, (ii) the Company otherwise defaults on the terms of the debt securities and (iii) the final maturity of 
the debt securities. The return the holder receives on any series of debt securities issued under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture may be significantly less than what a holder would have otherwise received had the debt securities 
been automatically accelerated upon certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to the 
Company or declared due and payable immediately following the breach of a covenant or warranty by the 
Company.
Covenant Breaches
References to a covenant breach with respect to any series of debt securities mean any of the following:
•
GSFC or the Company does not deposit a required sinking fund payment with regard to any 
debt security of that series on the due date;
•
GSFC remains in breach of any other covenant it makes in the GSFC 2008 Indenture for the 
benefit of the relevant series for 60 days after GSFC and the Company receive a notice of 
default stating that GSFC is in breach and requiring GSFC to remedy the breach. The notice 
must be sent by the trustee or the holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the relevant 
series of debt securities then outstanding;
•
Except as provided by the GSFC 2008 Indenture, the debt security of that series and the 
related guarantee, the guarantee ceases to be effective, or a court finds the guarantee to be 
unenforceable or invalid, or the Company denies its obligations as the guarantor.
A covenant breach shall not be an event of default with respect to any security.
Remedies If an Event of Default or Covenant Breach Occurs
If an event of default has occurred with respect to any series of debt securities and has not been cured or 
waived, the trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all debt securities of that series 
then outstanding may declare the entire principal amount of the debt securities of that series to be due 
immediately. If the event of default occurs because of events in bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization 
relating to GSFC, the entire principal amount of the debt securities of that series will be automatically 
accelerated, without any action by the trustee or any holder.
Each of the situations described above is called an acceleration of the stated maturity of the affected series of 
debt securities. If the stated maturity of any series is accelerated and a judgment for payment has not yet been 
obtained, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the debt securities of that series may cancel the 
acceleration for the entire series.
If an event of default or a covenant breach occurs, the trustee will have special duties. In that situation, the 
trustee will be obligated to use those of its rights and powers under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, and to use the 
same degree of care and skill in doing so, that a prudent person would use in that situation in conducting his or 
her own affairs.
-56-
Except as described in the prior paragraph, the trustee is not required to take any action under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture at the request of any holders unless the holders offer the trustee reasonable protection from 
expenses and liability (i.e., an indemnity). If the trustee is provided with an indemnity reasonably satisfactory to 
it, the holders of a majority in principal amount of all debt securities of the relevant series may direct the time, 
method and place of conducting any lawsuit or other formal legal action seeking any remedy available to the 
trustee with respect to that series. These majority holders may also direct the trustee in performing any other 
action under the GSFC 2008 Indenture with respect to the debt securities of that series.
Before a holder bypasses the trustee and bring its own lawsuit or other formal legal action or take other steps to 
enforce its rights or protect its interests relating to any debt security, all of the following must occur:
•
The holder must give the trustee written notice that an event of default or a covenant breach 
has occurred, and the event of default or covenant breach must not have been cured or 
waived;
•
The holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all debt securities of a holder’s series 
must make a written request that the trustee take action because of the default, and they or 
other holders must offer to the trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the trustee against 
the cost and other liabilities of taking that action;
•
The trustee must not have taken action for 60 days after the above steps have been taken; 
and
•
During those 60 days, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the debt securities of a 
holder’s series must not have given the trustee directions that are inconsistent with the written 
request of the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the debt securities of a 
holder’s series.
A holder is entitled at any time, however, to bring a lawsuit for the payment of money due on his or her debt 
security on or after its stated maturity (or, if the debt security is redeemable, on or after its redemption date).
Waiver of Default
The holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the debt securities of any series may waive a 
default for all debt securities of that series. If this happens, the default will be treated as if it has not occurred. 
No one can waive a payment default on a holder’s debt security, however, without the approval of the particular 
holder of that debt security.
GSFC and the Company Will Give the Trustee Information About Defaults Annually
GSFC and the Company will furnish to the trustee every year a written statement, respectively, of two of their 
officers certifying that to their knowledge GSFC or the Company, as the case may be, is in compliance with the 
GSFC 2008 Indenture and the debt securities issued under it, or else specifying any default under the relevant 
debt indenture. For the purpose of this paragraph, the term “default” means any event which is, or after notice 
or lapse of time or both would become, an event of default or covenant breach.
Default Amount on Acceleration
If an event of default occurs and the maturity of the Callable Notes is accelerated, GSFC will pay the default 
amount in respect of the principal of the Callable Notes at the maturity, instead of the amount payable on the 
Callable Notes as described earlier. 
For the purpose of determining whether the holders of GSFC’s Medium-Term Notes Series F, which include the 
Callable Notes, are entitled to take any action under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, GSFC will treat the outstanding 
face amount of each Callable Note as the outstanding principal amount of that note. Although the terms of the 
Callable Notes differ from those of the other Medium-Term Notes Series F, holders of specified percentages in 
-57-
principal amount of all Medium-Term Notes Series F, together in some cases with other series of GSFC’s debt 
securities, will be able to take action affecting all the Medium-Term Notes Series F, including the Callable 
Notes, except with respect to certain Medium-Term Notes Series F, if the terms of such notes specify that the 
holders of specified percentages in the principal amount of all such notes must also consent to such action. 
This action may involve changing some of the terms that apply to the Medium-Term Notes Series F, 
accelerating the maturity of the Medium-Term Notes Series F, after a default or waiving some of GSFC’s 
obligations under the GSFC 2008 Indenture. In addition, certain changes to the GSFC 2008 Indenture and the 
Callable Notes that only affect certain debt securities may be made with the approval of holders of a majority of 
the principal amount of such affected debt securities.
Guarantee by the Company
The Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of principal of, and any interest and 
premium on, the Medium-Term Notes, Series F, which include the Callable Notes, when due and payable, 
whether at the stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance 
with the terms of the security and the GSFC 2008 Indenture. The guarantee will remain in effect until the entire 
principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, the debt securities has been paid in full or discharged in 
accordance with the provisions of the GSFC 2008 Indenture, or otherwise fully defeased by the Company.
The guarantee by the Company of its debt securities issued under the GSFC 2008 Indenture will rank equally in 
right of payment with all senior indebtedness of the Company.
Mergers and Similar Transactions
GSFC and the Company are generally permitted to merge or consolidate with another corporation or other 
entity. GSFC and the Company also permitted to sell their assets substantially as an entirety to another 
corporation or other entity. With regard to any series of debt securities, however, GSFC or the Company may 
not take any of these actions unless all the following conditions are met:
•
If the successor entity in the transaction is not GSFC or the Company, as the case may be, 
the successor entity must be organized as a corporation, partnership or trust and must 
expressly assume the obligations of GSFC or the Company under the debt securities of that 
series and the GSFC 2008 Indenture with respect to that series. The successor entity may be 
organized under the laws of any jurisdiction, whether in the United States or elsewhere.
•
Immediately after the transaction, no default under the debt securities of that series or the 
related guarantees has occurred and is continuing. For this purpose, “default under the debt 
securities of that series or the related guarantees” means an event of default or a covenant 
breach with respect to that series or the related guarantees or any event that would be an 
event of default with respect to that series or the related guarantees if the requirements for 
giving GSFC or the Company default notice and for GSFC’s or the Company’s default having 
to continue for a specific period of time were disregarded.
If the conditions described above are satisfied with respect to debt securities of any series, neither GSFC nor 
the Company will need to obtain the approval of the holders of those debt securities in order to merge or 
consolidate or to sell assets of GSFC or the Company. Also, these conditions will apply only if GSFC or the 
Company wishes to merge or consolidate with another entity or sell assets of GSFC or the Company 
substantially as an entirety to another entity. Neither GSFC nor the Company will need to satisfy these 
conditions if GSFC or the Company enters into other types of transactions, including any transaction in which 
GSFC or the Company acquire the stock or assets of another entity, any transaction that involves a change of 
control of GSFC or the Company but in which GSFC or the Company does not merge or consolidate and any 
transaction in which GSFC or the Company sells less than substantially all assets of GSFC or the Company. 
While GSFC is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, there is no requirement that it remain a 
subsidiary.
-58-
Also, if GSFC or the Company merges, consolidates or sells assets of GSFC or the Company substantially as 
an entirety and the successor is a non-U.S. entity, neither GSFC nor any successor would have any obligation 
to compensate a holder for any resulting adverse tax consequences relating to his or her debt securities.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, GSFC may sell or transfer its assets 
substantially as an entirety, in one or more transactions, to one or more entities, provided that GSFC’s assets 
and the assets of its direct or indirect subsidiaries in which it owns a majority of the combined voting power, 
taken together, are not sold or transferred substantially as an entirety to one or more entities that are not 
majority-owned subsidiaries of the Company, and the Company. may sell or transfer its assets substantially as 
an entirety in one or more transactions, to one or more entities, provided that the assets of the Company and its 
direct or indirect subsidiaries in which it owns a majority of the combined voting power, taken together, are not 
sold or transferred substantially as an entirety to one or more entities that are not such subsidiaries.
Restriction on Liens
In the GSFC 2008 Indenture, the Company promises, with respect to each series of senior debt securities, not 
to create, assume, incur or guarantee any debt for borrowed money that is secured by a lien on the voting or 
profit participating equity ownership interests that the Company or any of its subsidiaries own in Goldman 
Sachs & Co. LLC, or in any subsidiary of the Company that beneficially owns or holds, directly or indirectly, 
those interests in Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, unless the Company also secures the senior debt securities of 
that series on an equal or priority basis with the other secured debt. The promise of the Company, however, is 
subject to an important exception: it may secure debt for borrowed money with liens on those interests without 
securing the senior debt securities of any series if its board of directors determines that the liens do not 
materially detract from or interfere with the value or control of those interests, as of the date of the 
determination.
Except as noted above, the GSFC 2008 Indenture does not restrict the Company’s ability to put liens on its 
interests in its subsidiaries other than Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, nor does the indenture restrict the 
Company’s ability to sell or otherwise dispose of its interests in any of its subsidiaries, including Goldman 
Sachs & Co. LLC. In addition, the restriction on liens in the GSFC 2008 Indenture applies only to liens that 
secure debt for borrowed money. For example, liens imposed by operation of law, such as liens to secure 
statutory obligations for taxes or workers’ compensation benefits, or liens the Company creates to secure 
obligations to pay legal judgments or surety bonds, would not be covered by this restriction.
Modification of the Debt Indenture and Waiver of Covenants
There are four types of changes GSFC and the Company can make to the GSFC 2008 Indenture and the debt 
securities or series of debt securities and related guarantees issued under the GSFC 2008 Indenture.
Changes Requiring Each Holder’s Approval
First, there are changes that cannot be made without the approval of the holder of each debt security affected 
by the change under the GSFC 2008 Indenture. Here is a list of those types of changes:
•
change the stated maturity for any principal or interest payment on a debt security;
•
reduce the principal amount, the amount payable on acceleration of the stated maturity after a 
default, the interest rate or the redemption price for a debt security;
•
permit redemption of a debt security if not previously permitted;
•
impair any right a holder may have to require repayment of its debt security;
•
change the currency of any payment on a debt security;
•
change the place of payment on a debt security;
•
impair a holder’s right to sue for payment of any amount due on its debt security;
•
reduce the percentage in principal amount of the debt securities of any one or more affected 
series, taken
-59-
•
separately or together, as applicable, and whether comprising the same or different series or 
less than all of the debt securities of a series, the approval of whose holders is needed to 
change the applicable debt indenture or those debt securities;
•
reduce the percentage in principal amount of the debt securities of any one or more affected 
series, taken separately or together, as applicable, and whether comprising the same or 
different series or less than all of the debt securities of a series, the consent of whose holders 
is needed to waive GSFC’s compliance with the applicable debt indenture or to waive 
defaults; and
•
change the provisions of the applicable debt indenture dealing with modification and waiver in 
any other respect, except to increase any required percentage referred to above or to add to 
the provisions that cannot be changed or waived without approval of the holder of each 
affected debt security.
Changes Not Requiring Approval
The second type of change does not require any approval by holders of the debt securities affected. These 
changes are limited to clarifications and changes that would not adversely affect any debt securities of any 
series in any material respect. Neither GSFC nor the Company needs any approval to make changes that 
affect only debt securities to be issued under the applicable indenture after the changes take effect.
GSFC and the Company may also make changes or obtain waivers that do not adversely affect a particular 
debt security, even if they affect other debt securities. In those cases, neither GSFC nor the Company needs to 
obtain the approval of the holder of the unaffected debt security; GSFC and the Company need only obtain any 
required approvals from the holders of the affected debt securities.
Changes Requiring Majority Approval
Any other change to the GSFC 2008 Indenture and the debt securities issued under such debt indenture would 
require the following approval:
•
If the change affects only particular debt securities within a series, it must be approved by the 
holders of a majority in principal amount of such particular debt securities.
•
If the change affects multiple debt securities of one or more series, it must be approved by the 
holders of a majority in principal amount of all debt securities affected by the change, with all 
such affected debt securities voting together as one class for this purpose (and by the holders 
of a majority in principal amount of any affected debt securities that by their terms are entitled 
to vote separately).
In each case, the required approval must be given by written consent.
This would mean that modification of terms with respect to certain debt securities of a series could be 
effectuated under the GSFC 2008 Indenture without obtaining the consent of the holders of a majority in 
principal amount of other securities of such series that are not affected by such modification.
The same majority approval would be required for GSFC to obtain a waiver of any of its covenants in the GSFC 
2008 Indenture. GSFC’s covenants include the promises GSFC and the Company make about merging and, 
with respect to the Company, putting liens on GSFC’s interests in Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. If the holders 
approve a waiver of a covenant, neither GSFC nor the Company will have to comply with it. The holders, 
however, cannot approve a waiver of any provision in a particular debt security, or in the GSFC 2008 Indenture 
as it affects that debt security, that neither GSFC nor the Company can change without the approval of the 
holder of that debt security as described above in “— Changes Requiring Each Holder’s Approval,” unless that 
holder approves the waiver.
-60-
Special Rules for Action by Holders
When holders take any action under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, such as giving a notice of default, notice of 
covenant breach, declaring an acceleration, approving any change or waiver or giving the trustee an 
instruction, GSFC will apply the following rules.
Only Outstanding Debt Securities Are Eligible
Only holders of outstanding debt securities or the outstanding debt securities of the applicable series, as 
applicable, will be eligible to participate in any action by holders of such debt securities or the debt securities of 
that series. Also, GSFC will count only outstanding debt securities in determining whether the various 
percentage requirements for taking action have been met. For these purposes, a debt security will not be 
“outstanding” if:
•
it has been surrendered for cancellation;
•
GSFC has deposited or set aside, in trust for its holder, money for its payment or redemption;
•
GSFC has fully defeased it; or
•
GSFC or one of its affiliates, such as Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, is the owner.
Determining Record Dates for Action by Holders
GSFC and the Company will generally be entitled to set any day as a record date for the purpose of 
determining the holders that are entitled to take action under a particular debt indenture. In certain limited 
circumstances, only the trustee will be entitled to set a record date for action by holders. If GSFC, the Company 
or the trustee set a record date for an approval or other action to be taken by holders, that vote or action may 
be taken only by persons or entities who are holders on the record date and must be taken during the period 
that GSFC specifies for this purpose, or that the trustee specifies if it sets the record date. GSFC, the Company 
or the trustee, as applicable, may shorten or lengthen this period from time to time.
This period, however, may not extend beyond the 180th day after the record date for the action. In addition, 
record dates for any global debt security may be set in accordance with procedures established by the 
depositary from time to time. Accordingly, record dates for global debt securities may differ from those for other 
debt securities.
Form of Callable Notes
The Callable Notes are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company and represented by a 
global note. GSFC will not issue definitive notes in exchange for the global note except in limited 
circumstances.
-61-
DESCRIPTION OF MEDIUM-TERM NOTES, SERIES F, CALLABLE FIXED AND FLOATING RATE NOTES 
DUE MAY 2031 OF GS FINANCE CORP. (FULLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED BY THE 
GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.) 
The following is a brief description of the terms of the Callable Fixed and Floating Rate Notes, an issuance of 
Medium-Term Notes, Series F of GS Finance Corp. (“GSFC”) (the “Callable Notes”), which are fully and 
unconditionally guaranteed by the Company. It does not purport to be complete. This description is subject to 
and qualified in its entirety by reference to the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2008, among 
GSFC, as issuer, the Company, as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, as supplemented 
by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2015, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated 
as of August 21, 2018 and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 1, 2020 (collectively, the 
“GSFC 2008 Indenture”), which are exhibits to the Annual Report of which this exhibit is a part. Unless the 
context otherwise provides, all references to the Company in this description refer only to The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc. and does not include its consolidated subsidiaries. 
The GSFC 2008 indenture permits GSFC to issue, from time to time, different series of debt securities and, 
within each different series of debt securities, different debt securities. The Medium-Term Notes, Series F are a 
single, distinct series of debt securities. GSFC may, however, issue notes in such amounts, at such times and 
on such terms as GSFC wishes. The notes of the Medium-Term Notes, Series F may differ from one another, 
and from other series, in their terms. 
In this description, references to a series of debt securities mean a series issued under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture, such as the notes issued under GSFC’s Medium-Term Notes, Series F program. 
Terms of the Callable Notes 
The Callable Notes were originally issued on May 28, 2021 and have a stated maturity date of May 28, 2031 
(the “stated maturity date”). As noted above, the Callable Notes are part of a series of debt securities, entitled 
“Medium-Term Notes, Series F,” that GSFC may issue under the GSFC 2008 Indenture from time to time. The 
Callable Notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Bonds Market under the ticker symbol “GS/31X.” 
The payment of principal of, and any interest and premium on, the Callable Notes is fully and unconditionally 
guaranteed by the Company. The guarantee will remain in effect until the entire principal of, and interest and 
premium, if any, on, the Callable Notes has been paid in full or discharged in accordance with the provisions of 
the GSFC 2008 Indenture, or otherwise fully defeased by GSFC or by the Company. The guarantee of senior 
debt securities of GSFC, such as the Callable Notes, will rank equally in right of payment to all senior 
indebtedness of the Company. 
Payment of Principal on Stated Maturity Date 
GSFC will pay holders of Callable Notes that have not been redeemed by the stated maturity date an amount in 
cash equal to the outstanding face amount of such holders’ Callable Notes. The stated maturity date of the 
Callable Notes is May 28, 2031, subject to GSFC’s early redemption right. If the stated maturity date falls on a 
day that is not a business day, payment of principal otherwise due on such day will be made on the next 
succeeding business day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after the stated 
maturity date. 
Interest Payments 
For each fixed rate interest period, the fixed interest rate on the Callable Notes will equal 4.25% per annum. For 
each floating rate interest period, the floating interest rate on the Callable Notes will be based upon the CMS 
-62-
spread on the relevant interest determination date for such floating rate interest period and will be a rate per 
annum equal to: 
•
if (i) the CMS spread times (ii) 3.25 is greater than or equal to the maximum interest rate, the 
maximum interest rate; 
•
if (i) the CMS spread times (ii) 3.25 is less than the maximum interest rate but greater than the 
minimum interest rate, (i) the CMS spread times (ii) 3.25; or 
•
if (i) the CMS spread times (ii) 3.25 is equal to or less than the minimum interest rate, the minimum 
interest rate. 
The maximum interest rate on the Callable Notes is 8% per annum. Based on the formula used to calculate the 
floating interest rate on the Callable Notes, holders will not benefit from any increases in the CMS spread 
above approximately 2.46%. The minimum interest rate on the Callable Notes is 1% per annum. 
The term “fixed rate interest periods” means the periods from and including a fixed rate interest payment date 
(or the original issue date, in the case of the first fixed rate interest period) to but excluding the next succeeding 
fixed rate interest payment date, where the term “fixed rate interest payment dates” means February 28, May 
28, August 28 and November 28 of each year, commencing on August 28, 2021 and ending on May 28, 2023, 
subject to adjustments as described below. 
The term “floating rate interest periods” means the periods from and including a floating rate interest payment 
date (or the final fixed rate interest payment date, in the case of the first floating rate interest period) to but 
excluding the next succeeding floating rate interest payment date (or the stated maturity date, in the case of the 
final floating rate interest period), where the term “floating rate interest payment dates” February 28, May 28, 
August 28, and November 28 of each year, beginning on May 28, 2023 and ending on the stated maturity date, 
subject to adjustments as described below. 
The term “interest determination dates” means, for each floating rate interest period, the second U.S. 
government securities business day preceding such floating rate interest period. 
The term “CMS spread” means, on any interest determination date, the 30-year CMS rate minus the 5-year 
CMS rate, as described under “— CMS Rate” below. 
The calculation agent will calculate the amount of interest payable on each fixed rate interest payment date and 
floating rate interest payment date (each, an “interest payment date”) for the applicable fixed rate interest 
period and floating rate interest period (each, an “interest period”) in the following manner. For each $1,000 
face amount of the Callable Notes and for each interest period, the calculation agent will calculate the amount 
of interest to be paid by calculating the product of (i) the $1,000 face amount times (ii) the applicable fixed 
interest rate or floating interest rate times (iii) the applicable day count convention on a 30/360 (ISDA) basis. 
Interest will be paid on the Callable Notes on each quarterly interest payment date. If an interest payment date 
(other than the interest payment date that falls on the stated maturity date) falls on a day that is not a business 
day, the payment due on such interest payment date will be postponed to the next day that is a business day; 
provided that interest due with respect to such interest payment date shall not accrue from and including such 
interest payment date to and including the date of payment of such interest as so postponed. If the stated 
maturity date falls on a day that is not a business day, payment of interest otherwise due on such day will be 
made on the next succeeding business day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from 
and after the stated maturity date. 
CMS Rate 
-63-
References to the 30-year CMS rate or the 5-year CMS rate on an interest determination date mean the rate 
appearing on the Refinitiv page ICESWAP1 for 30-year or 5-year index maturity, as the case may be, as of 
approximately 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on such interest determination date. If a CMS rate cannot be 
determined in this manner on the relevant interest determination date, the following procedures will apply to the 
Callable Notes. 
If the calculation agent determines on an interest determination date that a CMS rate has been discontinued, 
then the calculation agent will use a substitute or successor rate that it has determined in its sole discretion is 
most comparable to the applicable CMS rate, provided that if the calculation agent determines there is an 
industry-accepted successor rate, then the calculation agent shall use such successor rate. If the calculation 
agent has determined a substitute or successor rate in accordance with the foregoing, the calculation agent in 
its sole discretion may determine the business day convention, the applicable business days and the interest 
determination dates to be used, and any other relevant methodology for calculating such substitute or 
successor rate, including any adjustment factor needed to make such substitute or successor rate comparable 
to the applicable CMS rate, in a manner that is consistent with any industry-accepted practices for such 
substitute or successor rate. 
Unless the calculation agent uses a substitute or successor rate as so provided, if the CMS rate cannot be 
determined in the manner described above, the applicable CMS rate for that interest determination date will be 
determined by the calculation agent, after consulting such sources as it deems comparable to the foregoing 
display page, or any other source it deems reasonable, in its sole discretion. 
The applicable CMS rate will be subject to the corrections, if any, published on the Refinitiv page ICESWAP1 
within one hour of the time that rate was first displayed on such source. 
The term “Refinitiv page ICESWAP1” means the display on the Refinitiv Eikon service, or any successor or 
replacement service, on the page ICESWAP1, or any successor or replacement page on that service. 
Manner of Payment 
Any payment on the Callable Notes at maturity or upon redemption will be made to an account designated by 
the holder of such Callable Notes and approved by GSFC, or at the office of the trustee in New York City, but 
only when such Callable Notes are surrendered to the trustee at that office. GSFC may pay interest on any 
interest payment date by check mailed to the person who is the holder on the regular record date. GSCF also 
may make any payment in accordance with the applicable procedures of the depositary. 
Modified Business Day 
Any payment on the Callable Notes that would otherwise be due on a day that is not a business day may 
instead be paid on the next day that is a business day, with the same effect as if paid on the original due date. 
For the Callable Notes, however, the term business day may have a different meaning than it does for other 
Series F medium-term notes, as described under “— Special Calculation Provisions” below. 
Role of Calculation Agent 
The calculation agent in its sole discretion will make all determinations regarding the CMS spread, the 30-year 
CMS rate, the 5-year CMS rate, the interest determination dates, the regular record dates, the interest payable 
on each interest payment date, U.S. government securities business days, business days, postponement of the 
stated maturity date and the amount payable on the Callable Notes at maturity or redemption, as applicable. 
Absent manifest error, all determinations of the calculation agent will be final and binding on holders of the 
Callable Notes and GSFC, without any liability on the part of the calculation agent. 
-64-
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (“GS&Co.”), an affiliate of GSFC, is currently serving as the calculation agent as of 
the date of this description. GSFC may change the calculation agent for the Callable Notes at any time after the 
date of this prospectus supplement without notice and GS&Co. may resign as calculation agent at any time 
upon 60 days’ written notice to GSFC. 
Early Redemption Right 
GSFC may redeem the Callable Notes, at GSFC’s option, in whole but not in part, on the interest payment date 
falling on May 28, 2022 and on each interest payment date occurring thereafter, for an amount equal to 100% 
of the face amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. 
If GSFC chooses to exercise its early redemption right, it will notify the holder of the Callable Notes and the 
trustee by giving at least five business days’ prior notice. The day GSFC gives the notice, which will be a 
business day, will be the redemption notice date and the immediately following interest payment date, which 
GSFC will state in the redemption notice, will be the redemption date. GSFC will not give a redemption notice 
that results in a redemption date later than the stated maturity date. 
If GSFC gives the holder a redemption notice, GSFC will redeem the entire outstanding face amount of such 
holder’s Callable Notes. On the redemption date, GSFC will pay to the holder of record on the business day 
immediately preceding the redemption date, the redemption price in cash, together with any accrued and 
unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date, in the manner described under “— Manner of Payment” 
above. 
Special Calculation Provisions 
The term “business day” with respect to the Callable Notes means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or 
obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 
References to a U.S. government securities business day with respect to the Callable Notes mean any day 
except for a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
recommends that the fixed income department of its members be closed for the entire day for purposes of 
trading in U.S. government securities. 
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance 
The provisions for full defeasance and covenant defeasance in the GSFC 2008 Indenture do not apply to the 
Callable Notes. 
Default, Remedies and Waiver of Default 
A holder will have special rights if an event of default with respect to his or her series of debt securities occurs 
and is continuing, as described in this subsection. 
Events of Default 
References to an event of default with respect to any series of debt securities mean any of the following: 
•
GSFC or the Company does not pay the principal or any premium on any debt security of that series 
within 30 days after the due date; 
•
GSFC or the Company does not pay interest on any debt security of that series within 30 days after 
the due date; or 
-65-
•
GSFC files for bankruptcy or other events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to 
GSFC occur. Those events must arise under U.S. federal or state law, unless GSFC merges, 
consolidates or sells its assets as described above and the successor firm is a non-U.S. entity. If that 
happens, then those events must arise under U.S. federal or state law or the law of the jurisdiction in 
which the successor firm is legally organized. 
As described below under “Remedies If an Event of Default Occurs,” under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, events 
of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to the Company will not cause any of GSFC’s debt 
securities issued under such indenture to be automatically accelerated. In the event that the Company 
becomes subject to certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization (but GSFC does not), any series 
of debt securities issued under the GSFC 2008 Indenture will not be immediately due and repayable. In 
addition, under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, a breach of a covenant or warranty by the Company (including, for 
example, a breach of the Company’s covenants and warranties with respect to mergers and similar 
transactions or restrictions on liens) will not have the potential to cause any of GSFC’s debt securities issued 
under the GSFC 2008 Indenture to be declared due and payable immediately. Instead, under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture, the trustee or holder will need to wait until the earlier of the time that (i) GSFC itself becomes subject 
to certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or otherwise defaults on the terms of the debt 
securities, (ii) the Company otherwise defaults on the terms of the debt securities and (iii) the final maturity of 
the debt securities. The return the holder receives on any series of debt securities issued under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture may be significantly less than what a holder would have otherwise received had the debt securities 
been automatically accelerated upon certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to the 
Company or declared due and payable immediately following the breach of a covenant or warranty by the 
Company. 
Covenant Breaches 
References to a covenant breach with respect to any series of debt securities mean any of the following: 
•
GSFC or the Company does not deposit a required sinking fund payment with regard to any debt 
security of that series on the due date;
•
GSFC remains in breach of any other covenant it makes in the GSFC 2008 Indenture for the benefit of 
the relevant series for 60 days after GSFC and the Company receive a notice of default stating that 
GSFC is in breach and requiring GSFC to remedy the breach. The notice must be sent by the trustee 
or the holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the relevant series of debt securities then 
outstanding;
•
Except as provided by the GSFC 2008 Indenture, the debt security of that series and the related 
guarantee, the guarantee ceases to be effective, or a court finds the guarantee to be unenforceable or 
invalid, or the Company denies its obligations as the guarantor.
A covenant breach shall not be an event of default with respect to any security. 
Remedies If an Event of Default or Covenant Breach Occurs 
If an event of default has occurred with respect to any series of debt securities and has not been cured or 
waived, the trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all debt securities of that series 
then outstanding may declare the entire principal amount of the debt securities of that series to be due 
immediately. If the event of default occurs because of events in bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization 
relating to GSFC, the entire principal amount of the debt securities of that series will be automatically 
accelerated, without any action by the trustee or any holder. 
Each of the situations described above is called an acceleration of the stated maturity of the affected series of 
debt securities. If the stated maturity of any series is accelerated and a judgment for payment has not yet been 
obtained, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the debt securities of that series may cancel the 
acceleration for the entire series. 
-66-
If an event of default or a covenant breach occurs, the trustee will have special duties. In that situation, the 
trustee will be obligated to use those of its rights and powers under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, and to use the 
same degree of care and skill in doing so, that a prudent person would use in that situation in conducting his or 
her own affairs. 
Except as described in the prior paragraph, the trustee is not required to take any action under the GSFC 2008 
Indenture at the request of any holders unless the holders offer the trustee reasonable protection from 
expenses and liability (i.e., an indemnity). If the trustee is provided with an indemnity reasonably satisfactory to 
it, the holders of a majority in principal amount of all debt securities of the relevant series may direct the time, 
method and place of conducting any lawsuit or other formal legal action seeking any remedy available to the 
trustee with respect to that series. These majority holders may also direct the trustee in performing any other 
action under the GSFC 2008 Indenture with respect to the debt securities of that series. 
Before a holder bypasses the trustee and bring its own lawsuit or other formal legal action or take other steps to 
enforce its rights or protect its interests relating to any debt security, all of the following must occur: 
•
The holder must give the trustee written notice that an event of default or a covenant breach has 
occurred, and the event of default or covenant breach must not have been cured or waived; 
•
The holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all debt securities of a holder’s series must 
make a written request that the trustee take action because of the default, and they or other holders 
must offer to the trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the trustee against the cost and other 
liabilities of taking that action; 
•
The trustee must not have taken action for 60 days after the above steps have been taken; and 
•
During those 60 days, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the debt securities of a holder’s 
series must not have given the trustee directions that are inconsistent with the written request of the 
holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the debt securities of a holder’s series. 
A holder is entitled at any time, however, to bring a lawsuit for the payment of money due on his or her debt 
security on or after its stated maturity (or, if the debt security is redeemable, on or after its redemption date). 
Waiver of Default 
The holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the debt securities of any series may waive a 
default for all debt securities of that series. If this happens, the default will be treated as if it has not occurred. 
No one can waive a payment default on a holder’s debt security, however, without the approval of the particular 
holder of that debt security. 
GSFC and the Company Will Give the Trustee Information About Defaults Annually 
GSFC and the Company will furnish to the trustee every year a written statement, respectively, of two of their 
officers certifying that to their knowledge GSFC or the Company, as the case may be, is in compliance with the 
GSFC 2008 Indenture and the debt securities issued under it, or else specifying any default under the relevant 
debt indenture. For the purpose of this paragraph, the term “default” means any event which is, or after notice 
or lapse of time or both would become, an event of default or covenant breach.
 
Default Amount on Acceleration 
-67-
If an event of default occurs and the maturity of the Callable Notes is accelerated, GSFC will pay the default 
amount in respect of the principal of the Callable Notes at the maturity, instead of the amount payable on the 
Callable Notes as described earlier. 
For the purpose of determining whether the holders of GSFC’s Medium-Term Notes Series F, which include the 
Callable Notes, are entitled to take any action under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, GSFC will treat the outstanding 
face amount of each Callable Note as the outstanding principal amount of that note. Although the terms of the 
Callable Notes differ from those of the other Medium-Term Notes Series F, holders of specified percentages in 
principal amount of all Medium-Term Notes Series F, together in some cases with other series of GSFC’s debt 
securities, will be able to take action affecting all the Medium-Term Notes Series F, including the Callable 
Notes, except with respect to certain Medium-Term Notes Series F, if the terms of such notes specify that the 
holders of specified percentages in the principal amount of all such notes must also consent to such action. 
This action may involve changing some of the terms that apply to the Medium-Term Notes Series F, 
accelerating the maturity of the Medium-Term Notes Series F, after a default or waiving some of GSFC’s 
obligations under the GSFC 2008 Indenture. In addition, certain changes to the GSFC 2008 Indenture and the 
Callable Notes that only affect certain debt securities may be made with the approval of holders of a majority of 
the principal amount of such affected debt securities. 
Guarantee by the Company 
The Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of principal of, and any interest and 
premium on, the Medium-Term Notes, Series F, which include the Callable Notes, when due and payable, 
whether at the stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance 
with the terms of the security and the GSFC 2008 Indenture. The guarantee will remain in effect until the entire 
principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, the debt securities has been paid in full or discharged in 
accordance with the provisions of the GSFC 2008 Indenture, or otherwise fully defeased by the Company. 
The guarantee by the Company of its debt securities issued under the GSFC 2008 Indenture will rank equally in 
right of payment with all senior indebtedness of the Company. 
Mergers and Similar Transactions 
GSFC and the Company are generally permitted to merge or consolidate with another corporation or other 
entity. GSFC and the Company also permitted to sell their assets substantially as an entirety to another 
corporation or other entity. With regard to any series of debt securities, however, GSFC or the Company may 
not take any of these actions unless all the following conditions are met: 
•
If the successor entity in the transaction is not GSFC or the Company, as the case may be, the 
successor entity must be organized as a corporation, partnership or trust and must expressly 
assume the obligations of GSFC or the Company under the debt securities of that series and the 
GSFC 2008 Indenture with respect to that series. The successor entity may be organized under the 
laws of any jurisdiction, whether in the United States or elsewhere. 
•
Immediately after the transaction, no default under the debt securities of that series or the related 
guarantees has occurred and is continuing. For this purpose, “default under the debt securities of 
that series or the related guarantees” means an event of default or a covenant breach with respect to 
that series or the related guarantees or any event that would be an event of default with respect to 
that series or the related guarantees if the requirements for giving GSFC or the Company default 
notice and for GSFC’s or the Company’s default having to continue for a specific period of time were 
disregarded. 
If the conditions described above are satisfied with respect to debt securities of any series, neither GSFC nor 
the Company will need to obtain the approval of the holders of those debt securities in order to merge or 
consolidate or to sell assets of GSFC or the Company. Also, these conditions will apply only if GSFC or the 
Company wishes to merge or consolidate with another entity or sell assets of GSFC or the Company 
-68-
substantially as an entirety to another entity. Neither GSFC nor the Company will need to satisfy these 
conditions if GSFC or the Company enters into other types of transactions, including any transaction in which 
GSFC or the Company acquire the stock or assets of another entity, any transaction that involves a change of 
control of GSFC or the Company but in which GSFC or the Company does not merge or consolidate and any 
transaction in which GSFC or the Company sells less than substantially all assets of GSFC or the Company. 
While GSFC is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, there is no requirement that it remain a 
subsidiary. 
Also, if GSFC or the Company merges, consolidates or sells assets of GSFC or the Company substantially as 
an entirety and the successor is a non-U.S. entity, neither GSFC nor any successor would have any obligation 
to compensate a holder for any resulting adverse tax consequences relating to his or her debt securities. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, GSFC may sell or transfer its assets 
substantially as an entirety, in one or more transactions, to one or more entities, provided that GSFC’s assets 
and the assets of its direct or indirect subsidiaries in which it owns a majority of the combined voting power, 
taken together, are not sold or transferred substantially as an entirety to one or more entities that are not 
majority-owned subsidiaries of the Company, and the Company. may sell or transfer its assets substantially as 
an entirety in one or more transactions, to one or more entities, provided that the assets of the Company and its 
direct or indirect subsidiaries in which it owns a majority of the combined voting power, taken together, are not 
sold or transferred substantially as an entirety to one or more entities that are not such subsidiaries. 
Restriction on Liens 
In the GSFC 2008 Indenture, the Company promises, with respect to each series of senior debt securities, not 
to create, assume, incur or guarantee any debt for borrowed money that is secured by a lien on the voting or 
profit participating equity ownership interests that the Company or any of its subsidiaries own in Goldman 
Sachs & Co. LLC, or in any subsidiary of the Company that beneficially owns or holds, directly or indirectly, 
those interests in Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, unless the Company also secures the senior debt securities of 
that series on an equal or priority basis with the other secured debt. The promise of the Company, however, is 
subject to an important exception: it may secure debt for borrowed money with liens on those interests without 
securing the senior debt securities of any series if its board of directors determines that the liens do not 
materially detract from or interfere with the value or control of those interests, as of the date of the 
determination. 
Except as noted above, the GSFC 2008 Indenture does not restrict the Company’s ability to put liens on its 
interests in its subsidiaries other than Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, nor does the indenture restrict the 
Company’s ability to sell or otherwise dispose of its interests in any of its subsidiaries, including Goldman 
Sachs & Co. LLC. In addition, the restriction on liens in the GSFC 2008 Indenture applies only to liens that 
secure debt for borrowed money. For example, liens imposed by operation of law, such as liens to secure 
statutory obligations for taxes or workers’ compensation benefits, or liens the Company creates to secure 
obligations to pay legal judgments or surety bonds, would not be covered by this restriction. 
Modification of the Debt Indenture and Waiver of Covenants 
There are four types of changes GSFC and the Company can make to the GSFC 2008 Indenture and the debt 
securities or series of debt securities and related guarantees issued under the GSFC 2008 Indenture. 
Changes Requiring Each Holder’s Approval 
First, there are changes that cannot be made without the approval of the holder of each debt security affected 
by the change under the GSFC 2008 Indenture. Here is a list of those types of changes: 
•
change the stated maturity for any principal or interest payment on a debt security; 
-69-
•
reduce the principal amount, the amount payable on acceleration of the stated maturity after a default, 
the interest rate or the redemption price for a debt security; 
•
permit redemption of a debt security if not previously permitted; 
•
impair any right a holder may have to require repayment of its debt security; 
•
change the currency of any payment on a debt security; 
•
change the place of payment on a debt security; 
•
impair a holder’s right to sue for payment of any amount due on its debt security; 
•
reduce the percentage in principal amount of the debt securities of any one or more affected series, 
taken 
•
separately or together, as applicable, and whether comprising the same or different series or less than 
all of the debt securities of a series, the approval of whose holders is needed to change the applicable 
debt indenture or those debt securities; 
•
reduce the percentage in principal amount of the debt securities of any one or more affected series, 
taken separately or together, as applicable, and whether comprising the same or different series or 
less than all of the debt securities of a series, the consent of whose holders is needed to waive 
GSFC’s compliance with the applicable debt indenture or to waive defaults; and 
•
change the provisions of the applicable debt indenture dealing with modification and waiver in any 
other respect, except to increase any required percentage referred to above or to add to the provisions 
that cannot be changed or waived without approval of the holder of each affected debt security. 
Changes Not Requiring Approval 
The second type of change does not require any approval by holders of the debt securities affected. These 
changes are limited to clarifications and changes that would not adversely affect any debt securities of any 
series in any material respect. Neither GSFC nor the Company needs any approval to make changes that 
affect only debt securities to be issued under the applicable indenture after the changes take effect. 
GSFC and the Company may also make changes or obtain waivers that do not adversely affect a particular 
debt security, even if they affect other debt securities. In those cases, neither GSFC nor the Company needs to 
obtain the approval of the holder of the unaffected debt security; GSFC and the Company need only obtain any 
required approvals from the holders of the affected debt securities. 
Changes Requiring Majority Approval 
Any other change to the GSFC 2008 Indenture and the debt securities issued under such debt indenture would 
require the following approval: 
•
If the change affects only particular debt securities within a series, it must be approved by the 
holders of a majority in principal amount of such particular debt securities. 
•
If the change affects multiple debt securities of one or more series, it must be approved by the 
holders of a majority in principal amount of all debt securities affected by the change, with all such 
affected debt securities voting together as one class for this purpose (and by the holders of a 
majority in principal amount of any affected debt securities that by their terms are entitled to vote 
separately). 
In each case, the required approval must be given by written consent. 
This would mean that modification of terms with respect to certain debt securities of a series could be 
effectuated under the GSFC 2008 Indenture without obtaining the consent of the holders of a majority in 
principal amount of other securities of such series that are not affected by such modification. 
The same majority approval would be required for GSFC to obtain a waiver of any of its covenants in the GSFC 
2008 Indenture. GSFC’s covenants include the promises GSFC and the Company make about merging and, 
with respect to the Company, putting liens on GSFC’s interests in Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. If the holders 
-70-
approve a waiver of a covenant, neither GSFC nor the Company will have to comply with it. The holders, 
however, cannot approve a waiver of any provision in a particular debt security, or in the GSFC 2008 Indenture 
as it affects that debt security, that neither GSFC nor the Company can change without the approval of the 
holder of that debt security as described above in “— Changes Requiring Each Holder’s Approval,” unless that 
holder approves the waiver. 
Special Rules for Action by Holders 
When holders take any action under the GSFC 2008 Indenture, such as giving a notice of default, notice of 
covenant breach, declaring an acceleration, approving any change or waiver or giving the trustee an 
instruction, GSFC will apply the following rules. 
Only Outstanding Debt Securities Are Eligible 
Only holders of outstanding debt securities or the outstanding debt securities of the applicable series, as 
applicable, will be eligible to participate in any action by holders of such debt securities or the debt securities of 
that series. Also, GSFC will count only outstanding debt securities in determining whether the various 
percentage requirements for taking action have been met. For these purposes, a debt security will not be 
“outstanding” if: 
•
it has been surrendered for cancellation; 
•
GSFC has deposited or set aside, in trust for its holder, money for its payment or redemption; 
•
GSFC has fully defeased it; or 
•
GSFC or one of its affiliates, such as Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, is the owner. 
Determining Record Dates for Action by Holders 
GSFC and the Company will generally be entitled to set any day as a record date for the purpose of 
determining the holders that are entitled to take action under a particular debt indenture. In certain limited 
circumstances, only the trustee will be entitled to set a record date for action by holders. If GSFC, the Company 
or the trustee set a record date for an approval or other action to be taken by holders, that vote or action may 
be taken only by persons or entities who are holders on the record date and must be taken during the period 
that GSFC specifies for this purpose, or that the trustee specifies if it sets the record date. GSFC, the Company 
or the trustee, as applicable, may shorten or lengthen this period from time to time. 
This period, however, may not extend beyond the 180th day after the record date for the action. In addition, 
record dates for any global debt security may be set in accordance with procedures established by the 
depositary from time to time. Accordingly, record dates for global debt securities may differ from those for other 
debt securities. 
Form of Callable Notes 
The Callable Notes are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company and represented by a 
global note. GSFC will not issue definitive notes in exchange for the global note except in limited 
circumstances. 
-71-
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Outside Director __________ RSU Award
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your __________ award of RSUs (your “Award”) [that will be 
granted to you as set forth on your Award Statement].  You should read carefully this entire Award 
Agreement, which includes the Award Statement and any attached Appendix.
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
1.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  
2.
Your Award Statement.  The Award Statement delivered to you contains some of your 
Award’s specific terms.  For example, it contains the [applicable] Date[s] of Grant, the [calculation that 
will be used to determine the] number of RSUs [that will be] awarded to you [on any such Date of Grant] 
and the Delivery Date.
3.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan.  
Delivery of Your RSU Shares
4.
Delivery.  RSU Shares (less applicable withholding) will be delivered in respect of your 
Outstanding RSUs reasonably promptly (but no more than 30 Business Days) after the Delivery Date 
listed on your Award Statement.  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the RSU 
Shares will be effected by book-entry credit to your Account and no delivery of RSU Shares will be made 
unless you have timely established your Account.  Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a 
general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  
Dividend Equivalent Rights
5.
Dividend Equivalent Rights.  Each RSU includes a Dividend Equivalent Right, which 
entitles you to receive an amount (less applicable withholding), at or after the time of distribution of any 
regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock, equal to any regular cash 
dividend payment that would have been made in respect of an RSU Share underlying your Outstanding 
RSUs for any record date that occurs on or after the [applicable] Date of Grant.
(a)
Accelerated Delivery
6.
Accelerated Delivery in the Event of Conflicted Employment or Death.  In the event 
of your Conflicted Employment or death, your Outstanding Award will be treated as described in this 
Paragraph 6, and all other terms of this Award Agreement continue to apply.
(a)
You Are Determined to Have Accepted Conflicted Employment.
(i)
Generally.  Unless prohibited by applicable law or regulation, if you 
accept Conflicted Employment, as soon as practicable after the Committee has received 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, RSU Shares will be 
delivered in respect of your Outstanding RSUs (including in the form of cash as described in 
Paragraph 7(b)). 
(ii)
You May Have to Take Other Steps to Address Conflicts of Interest.  
The Committee retains the authority to exercise its rights under the Award Agreement or the Plan 
(including Section 1.3.2 of the Plan) to take or require you to take other steps it determines in its 
EXHIBIT 10.32
sole discretion to be necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest 
(which may include a determination that the accelerated delivery described in Paragraph 6(a)(i) 
will not apply because such actions are not necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived 
conflict of interest).
(b)
Death.  If you die, the RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding RSUs [(and, 
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any applicable award agreement, any previously 
granted Outstanding RSUs)] will be delivered to your Account as soon as practicable after the 
date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to 
the Committee.
Other Terms, Conditions and Agreements
7.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements.
(a)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Delivery of RSU 
Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with 
Section 3.2 of the Plan, provided that the Committee may determine not to apply the withholding 
rate described in Section 3.2.2 of the Plan. 
(b)
Firm May Deliver Cash or Other Property Instead of RSU Shares.  In accordance 
with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the sole discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any 
portion of the RSU Shares, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under the 
Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of RSU Shares 
will include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other 
property.
(c)
Firm May Affix Legends and Place Stop Orders on RSU Shares.  GS Inc. may 
affix to Certificates representing RSU Shares any legend that the Committee determines to be 
necessary or advisable.  GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any 
legended RSU Shares.
(d)
You Agree to Certain Consents.  By accepting this Award, you have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying 
to any third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as 
the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional 
consents that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
Non-Transferability
8.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 8 or as 
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of 
the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of 
this Paragraph 8 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant 
to which you may transfer some or all of your RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, 
stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, 
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive 
relationships, any person sharing the recipient’s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in 
which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these 
persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.
Governing Law
9.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
- 2 -
10.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 10 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are 
intended and will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements 
applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), 
whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The 
Committee will have full authority to give effect to this intent. To the extent necessary to give 
effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the provisions 
of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions 
of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency 
between this Paragraph 10 and the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 10 
will govern.
(b)
Delivery of RSU Shares will not be delayed beyond the date on which all 
applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares required by this Agreement 
(including those specified in Paragraphs 4, 6(b) and 7 and the consents and other items specified 
in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and will occur by December 31 of the calendar year in 
which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such conditions or restrictions to be 
satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be 
permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay delivery of RSU Shares to a later date as 
may be permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 1.409A-3(d).  For the avoidance of doubt, 
if the Award includes a “series of installment payments” as described in Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), 
your right to the series of installment payments will be treated as a right to a series of separate 
payments and not as a right to a single payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 7(b) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the 
Plan, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other 
property that the Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs will not have the effect of deferring 
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on 
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, 
with respect to the RSU Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the 
Committee elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise 
as may be permitted under Section 409A, including and to the extent applicable, the subsequent 
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).
(d)
Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 6(b), the delivery of RSU 
Shares referred to therein will be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that 
includes the date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).
(e)
Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 5 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the 
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs will be 
paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding 
regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock the record date for 
which occurs on or after the [applicable] Date of Grant.  The payment will be in an amount (less 
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in 
respect of the RSU Shares underlying such Outstanding RSUs.
(f)
The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 6(a)(i) will be the 
earlier of (i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery 
or payment will be made, and any Committee action referred to in Paragraph 6(a)(i) will be taken, 
only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the Firm, would 
not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.  
(g)
Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A Deferred 
Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
- 3 -
(h)
Delivery of RSU Shares in respect of this Award may be made, if and to the 
extent elected by the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified 
hereinabove (but, in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred Compensation, only to 
the extent that the later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).  
(i)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any 
taxes and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to 
designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.
Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting
11.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided, that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further, that the Committee expressly reserves the right to accelerate the delivery of the RSU 
Shares and in its discretion to provide that such Shares may not be transferable until the Delivery Date.  A 
modification that impacts the tax consequences of this Award or the timing of delivery of RSU Shares 
will not be an amendment that materially adversely affects your rights and obligations under this Award 
Agreement.  Any amendment of this Award Agreement will be in writing.
12.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.
13.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities.  In accordance with applicable 
law, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from speaking with your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations.  In addition, 
nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting 
channels that are available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation.
- 4 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the [applicable] Date of Grant [for each Award granted hereunder].
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
Accepted and Agreed:
By:  ____________________________
Print Name:
- 5 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings:
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A.  
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.   
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Agreement” means the written document or documents by which each Award is 
evidenced, including any related Award Statement and signature card.
(c) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(d) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(e) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Committee” means the committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan 
pursuant to Section 1.3, and, to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate for the compensation 
realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” compensation under 
Section 162(m) of the Code, shall be a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of two or 
more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning of Code Section 162(m), and 
which, to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the 
exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, shall 
be a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a 
“non-employee director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board, 
the Committee shall be the Compensation Committee of the Board.  
(h) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(i) “Conflicted Employment” means the Grantee’s employment at any U.S. Federal, state or 
local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or international organization, any self-
regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any 
other employer determined by the Committee, if, as a result of such employment, the Grantee’s continued 
holding of any Outstanding Award or Shares at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of 
interest.   
(j) “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
- 6 -
(k) “Delivery Date” means each date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as a 
delivery date, provided, unless the Committee determines otherwise, such date is during a Window Period 
or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the first Window Period beginning 
after such date.
(l) “Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award. 
(m) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(n) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(o) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(p) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, canceled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(q) “RSU” means a restricted stock unit Award granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.  
(r) “RSU Shares” means shares of Common Stock that underlie an RSU.
(s) “Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(t) “Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 7 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Outside Director __________ RSU Award (Cash-Settled)
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your __________ award of RSUs (your “Award”).  You should 
read carefully this entire Award Agreement, which includes the Award Statement and any attached 
Appendix.
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
1.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  
2.
Your Award Statement.  The Award Statement delivered to you contains some of your 
Award’s specific terms.  For example, it contains the Date of Grant, the number of RSUs awarded to you, 
the Settlement Date and the Payment Date.
3.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan. 
Payment of Your RSU Payment Amount
4.
Payment.  The RSU Payment Amount (less applicable withholding) will be paid in 
respect of your Outstanding RSUs on the Payment Date listed on your Award Statement.  Until such 
payment, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS 
Inc.  
Dividend Equivalent Rights
5.
Dividend Equivalent Rights.  Each RSU includes a Dividend Equivalent Right, which 
entitles you to receive an amount (less applicable withholding), at or after the time of distribution of any 
regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock, equal to any regular cash 
dividend payment that would have been made in respect of an RSU Share underlying your Outstanding 
RSUs for any record date that occurs on or after the Date of Grant.
(a)
Accelerated Payment
6.
Accelerated Payment in the Event of Conflicted Employment or Death.  In the event 
of your Conflicted Employment or death, your Outstanding Award will be treated as described in this 
Paragraph 6, and all other terms of this Award Agreement continue to apply.
(a)
You Are Determined to Have Accepted Conflicted Employment.
(i)
Generally.  Unless prohibited by applicable law or regulation, if you 
accept Conflicted Employment, as soon as practicable after the Committee has received 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, the RSU Payment Amount 
will be paid in respect of your Outstanding RSUs. 
(ii)
You May Have to Take Other Steps to Address Conflicts of Interest.  
The Committee retains the authority to exercise its rights under the Award Agreement or the Plan 
(including Section 1.3.2 of the Plan) to take or require you to take other steps it determines in its 
sole discretion to be necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest 
(which may include a determination that the accelerated payment described in Paragraph 6(a)(i) 
will not apply because such actions are not necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived 
conflict of interest).
EXHIBIT 10.33
(b)
Death.  If you die, the payment of the RSU Payment Amount with respect to your 
Outstanding RSUs [(and, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any applicable award 
agreement, any previously granted Outstanding RSUs)] will be delivered to your Account as soon 
as practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the 
Committee is provided to the Committee. 
Other Terms, Conditions and Agreements
7.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements.
(a)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Payment of the 
RSU Payment Amount is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in 
accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan, provided that the Committee may determine not to apply 
the withholding rate described in Section 3.2.2 of the Plan. 
(b)
You Agree to Certain Consents.  By accepting this Award, you have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying 
to any third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as 
the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional 
consents that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
Non-Transferability
8.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 8 or as 
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of 
the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of 
this Paragraph 8 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant 
to which you may transfer some or all of your RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, 
stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, 
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive 
relationships, any person sharing the recipient’s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in 
which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these 
persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.
Governing Law
9.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
10.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 10 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are 
intended and will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements 
applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), 
whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The 
Committee will have full authority to give effect to this intent.  To the extent necessary to give 
effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the provisions 
of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions 
of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency 
between this Paragraph 10 and the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 10 
will govern.
(b)
Payment of the RSU Payment Amount in respect of your RSUs will not be 
delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions or restrictions on payment required by 
- 2 -
this Agreement (including those specified in Paragraphs 4, 6(b) and 7 and the consents and other 
items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and will occur by December 31 of the 
calendar year in which the Payment Date occurs unless, in order to permit such conditions or 
restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or 
otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay payment of the RSU 
Payment Amount to a later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 
1.409A-3(d).  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Award includes a “series of installment 
payments” as described in Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), your right to the series of installment 
payments will be treated as a right to a series of separate payments and not as a right to a single 
payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the extent necessary to comply 
with Section 409A, any payments that the Firm may make in respect of your RSUs will not have 
the effect of deferring payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the 
date on which such payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with 
respect to the RSU Payment Amount that would otherwise have been payable (unless the 
Committee elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise 
as may be permitted under Section 409A, including and to the extent applicable, the subsequent 
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).
(d)
Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 6(b), the Payment of the 
RSU Payment Amount referred to therein will be made after the date of death and during the 
calendar year that includes the date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under 
Section 409A).
(e)
Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 5 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the 
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs will be 
paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding 
regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock the record date for 
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant.  The payment will be in an amount (less applicable 
withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the 
RSU Shares underlying such Outstanding RSUs.
(f)
The timing of payment referred to in Paragraph 6(a)(i) will be the earlier of (i) 
the Payment Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory 
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such payment will be 
made, and any Committee action referred to in Paragraph 6(a)(i) will be taken, only at such time 
as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the 
imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.  
(g)
Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A Deferred 
Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
(h)
Payment of the RSU Payment Amount in respect of any RSUs may be made, if 
and to the extent elected by the Committee, later than the Payment Date or other date or period 
specified hereinabove (but, in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred 
Compensation, only to the extent that the later payment is permitted under Section 409A).  
(i)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any 
taxes and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to 
designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the payment.
Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting
11.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided, that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
- 3 -
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further, that the Committee expressly reserves the right to accelerate the payment of the RSU 
Payment Amount and in its discretion to provide that such payment may not be transferable until the 
Payment Date.  A modification that impacts the tax consequences of this Award or the timing of payment 
of the RSU Payment Amount will not be an amendment that materially adversely affects your rights and 
obligations under this Award Agreement.  Any amendment of this Award Agreement will be in writing.
12.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.
13.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities.  In accordance with applicable 
law, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from speaking with your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations.  In addition, 
nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting 
channels that are available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation.
- 4 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
Accepted and Agreed:
By:  ____________________________
Print Name:
- 5 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings:
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A.  
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.   
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Agreement” means the written document or documents by which each Award is 
evidenced, including any related Award Statement and signature card.
(c) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(d) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(e) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Committee” means the committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan 
pursuant to Section 1.3, and, to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate for the compensation 
realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” compensation under 
Section 162(m) of the Code, shall be a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of two or 
more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning of Code Section 162(m), and 
which, to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the 
exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, shall 
be a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a 
“non-employee director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board, 
the Committee shall be the Compensation Committee of the Board.  
(h) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(i) “Conflicted Employment” means the Grantee’s employment at any U.S. Federal, state or 
local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or international organization, any self-
regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any 
other employer determined by the Committee, if, as a result of such employment, the Grantee’s continued 
holding of any Outstanding Award or Shares at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of 
interest.   
(j)  “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
- 6 -
(k) “Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award. 
(l) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(m) “Fair Market Value” means, with respect to a share of Common Stock on any day, the 
fair market value as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.
(n) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(o) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(p) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, canceled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(q) “RSU” means a restricted stock unit Award granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.
(r) “RSU Payment Amount” means the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at 
the close of trading on the Settlement Date.
(s) “RSU Shares” means shares of Common Stock that underlie an RSU.
(t) “Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(u) “Settlement Date” means the last trading day prior to the Payment Date; provided that, if 
the Committee determines that such date is impracticable under the circumstances, the Committee may 
designate a trading day prior to the Payment Date that is practicable.
(v) “Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 7 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
[One-Time][Year-End] RSU Award
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your __________ award of RSUs (your “Award”).  You should 
read carefully this entire document (including its [Appendix][Appendices]), the Award Statement 
and the Signature Card (together, the “Award Agreement”), as well as the other documentation 
presented to you in connection with acceptance of your Award (collectively, “Award 
Documentation”).
Acceptance
1.
You Must Decide Whether to Accept Your Award.  To be eligible for your Award, 
you must by the Acceptance Deadline: (a) open and activate an Account; (b) accept any Additional Terms 
presented to you as part of the Award Documentation; and (c) execute (including by electronic means) the 
accompanying Signature Card in accordance with its instructions.  By executing the Signature Card, you 
confirm your agreement to all of the terms of the Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and 
the Signature Card), as well as any Additional Terms.
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
2.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  The Plan and its Prospectus are included with the Award 
Documentation.
3.
Your Award Statement.  The accompanying Award Statement contains the number of 
RSUs awarded to you and some of your Award’s specific terms.  For example, it specifies any applicable 
Vesting Dates, Delivery Dates and Transferability Dates.  
4.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan.  
Vesting of Your RSUs
5.
Vesting.  On each Vesting Date listed on your Award Statement, you will become Vested 
in the amount of Outstanding RSUs listed next to that date.  When an RSU becomes Vested, it means 
only that your continued active Employment is not required for delivery of that portion of RSU Shares.  
Vesting does not mean you have a non-forfeitable right to the Vested portion of your Award.  The 
terms of this Award Agreement (including conditions to delivery and any applicable Transfer 
Restrictions) continue to apply to Vested RSUs, and you can still forfeit Vested RSUs and any RSU 
Shares.
Delivery of Your RSU Shares
6.
Delivery.  Reasonably promptly (but no more than 30 Business Days) after each Delivery 
Date identified on your Award Statement, RSU Shares (less applicable withholding as described in 
Paragraph 13(b)) will be delivered (by book entry credit to your Account) in respect of the amount of 
Outstanding RSUs listed next to that date.  The Committee may select multiple dates within the 30-
Business-Day period following the Delivery Date to deliver RSU Shares in respect of all or a portion of 
the RSUs with the same Delivery Date listed on the Award Statement, and all such dates will be treated as 
a single Delivery Date for purposes of this Award.  Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a 
general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  Without limiting the Committee’s 
authority under Section 1.3.2(h) of the Plan, the Firm may accelerate any Delivery Date by up to 30 days. 
EXHIBIT 10.34
Transfer Restrictions Following Delivery
7.
Transfer Restrictions and Shares at Risk.  Within 30 Business Days after any 
applicable Transferability Date identified on your Award Statement, GS Inc. will remove the Transfer 
Restrictions on any Shares at Risk in respect of the amount of Outstanding RSUs listed next to that date.  
If your Award Statement reflects a Transferability Date, [__% of the RSU Shares delivered on any 
Delivery Date before tax withholding (or, if the tax withholding rate is greater than 50%, all RSU 
Shares)][all of the RSU Shares delivered on any Delivery Date after tax withholding] will be Shares at 
Risk.  The Committee may select multiple dates within the 30-Business-Day period on which to remove 
Transfer Restrictions for all or a portion of the Shares at Risk with the same Transferability Date, and all 
such dates will be treated as a single Transferability Date for purposes of this Award.  Any purported sale, 
exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in 
violation of the Transfer Restrictions on Shares at Risk will be void.  [If your Award Statement does 
not reflect any Transferability Date, then references to Transfer Restrictions and Shares at Risk in 
this Award Agreement are inapplicable to your Award and this Paragraph 7 does not apply.]  
Dividends
8.
[Dividend Equivalent Rights and] Dividends.  [Each RSU includes a Dividend 
Equivalent Right, which entitles you to receive an amount (less applicable withholding), at or after the 
time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock, 
equal to any regular cash dividend payment that would have been made in respect of an RSU Share 
underlying your Outstanding RSUs for any record date that occurs on or after the Date of Grant.  In 
addition, you][You] will be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend paid in respect 
of any Shares at Risk.  [The RSUs do not include Dividend Equivalent Rights.]
Forfeiture of Your Award
9.
How You May Forfeit Your Award.  This Paragraph 9 sets forth the events that result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of 
up to all other amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with 
Paragraph 10.  More than one event may apply, and in no case will the occurrence of one event limit the 
forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event.  Paragraph 11 
(relating to certain circumstances under which you will not forfeit your unvested RSUs upon Employment 
termination) and Paragraph 12 (relating to certain circumstances under which vesting, delivery and/or 
release of Transfer Restrictions may be accelerated) provide for exceptions to one or more provisions of 
this Paragraph 9. 
(a)
Unvested RSUs Forfeited if Your Employment Terminates.  If your Employment 
terminates for any reason or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed with the Firm (which 
includes off-premises notice periods, “garden leaves,” pay in lieu of notice or any other similar status), 
your rights to your Outstanding RSUs that are not Vested will terminate, and no RSU Shares will be 
delivered in respect of such RSUs.
(b)
Vested and Unvested RSUs Forfeited [if You Solicit Clients or Employees, Interfere with 
Client or Employee Relationships or Participate in the Hiring of Employees][Upon Certain Events].  If 
any of the following occurs before the applicable Delivery Date, [except as prohibited by applicable law] 
your rights to all of your Outstanding RSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate, and no RSU Shares 
will be delivered in respect of such RSUs:  
(i)
[You Solicit Clients or Employees, Interfere with Client or Employee 
Relationships or Participate in the Hiring of Employees.  Except as prohibited by applicable law, 
either:]
(A)
you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, [(A)][(1)] Solicit any 
Client to transact business with a Covered Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any 
business with the Firm, [(B)][(2)] interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or 
- 2 -
damage) any relationship between the Firm and any Client, (C)[(3)] Solicit any person who is an 
employee of the Firm to resign from the Firm, [(D)][(4)] Solicit any Selected Firm Personnel to 
apply for or accept employment (or other association) with any person or entity other than the 
Firm or (E) participate in the hiring of any Selected Firm Personnel by any person or entity other 
than the Firm (including, without limitation, participating in the identification of individuals for 
potential hire, and participating in any hiring decision), whether as an employee or consultant or 
otherwise, or 
(B)
Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into 
partnership, membership or similar status by any entity where you have, or will have, direct or 
indirect managerial responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel, unless the Committee 
determines that you were not involved in such Solicitation, hiring or acceptance.
(ii)
[GS Inc. Fails to Maintain the Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio.  GS Inc. fails to 
maintain the required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” as defined under Federal Reserve Board 
Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive business days.]
(iii)
[GS Inc. Is Determined to Be in Default.  The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) makes a written 
recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act for the appointment of the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. 
based on a determination that GS Inc. is “in default” or “in danger of default.”]
(c)
Vested and Unvested RSUs and Shares at Risk Forfeited upon Certain Events.  If any of 
the following occurs (i) your rights to all of your Outstanding RSUs (whether or not Vested) will 
terminate, and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs and (ii) your rights to any Shares 
at Risk will terminate and all such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, in each case, as may be further 
described below:
(i)
You Failed to Consider Risk.  You Failed to Consider Risk during ____. 
(ii)
Your Conduct Constitutes Cause.  Any event that constitutes Cause has occurred 
before the applicable Delivery Date for RSUs or the applicable Transferability Date for any 
Shares at Risk.
(iii)
You Breach an Obligation to the Firm.  The Committee determines that, before 
the applicable Delivery Date for RSUs or the applicable Transferability Date for any Shares at 
Risk, you Breached an Obligation to the Firm.  
(iv)
You Do Not Provide Timely Certifications or Comply with Your Certifications.  
You fail to certify to GS Inc. that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this 
Award Agreement as required by Paragraph 13(d), or the Committee determines that you have 
failed to comply with a term of the Plan or this Award Agreement to which you have certified 
compliance.
(v)
You Do Not Follow Dispute Resolution Procedures.  You attempt to have any 
dispute, controversy or claim under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any manner 
that is not provided for by Paragraph 16 or Section 3.17 of the Plan, or you attempt to arbitrate a 
dispute, controversy or claim without first having exhausted your internal administrative remedies 
in accordance with Paragraph 13(c). 
(vi)
You Bring an Action that Results in a Determination that Any Award Agreement 
Term Is Invalid.  As a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any term of this 
Award Agreement is invalid. 
- 3 -
(vii)
You Receive Compensation in Respect of Your Award from Another Employer.  
Your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively Employed 
with the Firm and another entity grants you cash, equity or other property (whether vested or 
unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any Outstanding RSUs or Shares at 
Risk; provided, however, that your rights will only be terminated in respect of the RSUs and 
Shares at Risk that are replaced, substituted for or otherwise considered by such other entity in 
making its grant.
(d)
[Additional Forfeiture and Repayment Conditions for Material Risk Takers.  [If at any 
point in ____][Since] the Firm identified you as a Material Risk Taker (“MRT”) [in ____] then the EU 
and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix and/or the GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix (as 
applicable to you, the “MRT Appendix”) supplements this Paragraph 9.  The MRT Appendix sets forth 
additional events that (i) result in forfeiture of up to all of your RSUs and Shares at Risk and (ii) may 
require repayment to the Firm of up to all amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award 
in accordance with Paragraph 10.  Your MRT classification, as defined in the MRT Appendix, was 
communicated to you separately.  [If you are unsure of whether the Firm identified you as an MRT, or 
which classification(s) apply, you must contact HCM prior to accepting this Award.]  The Firm’s records 
with respect to such classification(s) will be controlling as to whether and which MRT Appendix applies 
to your Award.  The MRT classifications with their corresponding MRT Appendix are as follows:
MRT Classification
MRT Appendix
EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior 
Management and/or UK MRT
EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT and GSBE Senior Management
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management and 
any combination of EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, 
GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix and 
EU and UK Material Risk Taker 
Appendix]
(e)
Actions Pending Forfeiture.  In connection with any investigation as to whether any of 
the events that would result in forfeiture under the Plan [or][,] this Paragraph 9 [or the MRT Appendix] 
have occurred, the Firm reserves the right to (i) suspend vesting of Outstanding RSUs, [payments under 
Dividend Equivalent Rights,] delivery of RSU Shares or release of any Transfer Restrictions; (ii) deliver 
any RSU Shares[, payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] or dividends into an escrow account in 
accordance with Paragraph 13(e)(iii); or (iii) apply Transfer Restrictions to any RSU Shares.
Repayment of Your Award
10.
When You May Be Required to Repay Your Award.  If the Committee determines 
that any term of this Award was not satisfied, you will be required, immediately upon demand therefor, to 
repay to the Firm the following:
(a)
Any RSU Shares (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes any Shares at Risk) for 
which the terms (including the terms for delivery) of the related RSUs were not satisfied, in accordance 
with Section 2.6.3 of the Plan.
(b)
Any Shares at Risk for which the terms (including the terms for the release of Transfer 
Restrictions) were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.5.3 of the Plan.
(c)
Any RSU Shares that were delivered (but not subject to Transfer Restrictions) at the same 
time any Shares at Risk that are cancelled or required to be repaid were delivered.
(d)
[Any payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights for which the terms were not satisfied 
(including any such payments made in respect of RSUs that are forfeited or RSU Shares that are cancelled 
or required to be repaid), in accordance with Section 2.8.3 of the Plan.]
- 4 -
(e)
Any dividends paid in respect of any RSU Shares that are cancelled or required to be 
repaid.
(f)
Any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations with respect to any 
RSUs, RSU Shares[,][and] dividend payments [and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] that are 
forfeited or required to be repaid.  
Exceptions to the Vesting, Delivery and/or Transferability Dates
11.
Circumstances Under Which You Will Not Forfeit Your Unvested RSUs on 
Employment Termination (but the Original Delivery Dates and Transferability Dates Continue to 
Apply).  If your Employment terminates at a time when you meet the requirements for [Retirement,] 
Extended Absence[,] [“downsizing”] [or] [Approved Termination], [each] as described below, then 
Paragraph 9(a) will not apply, and your Outstanding RSUs will be treated as described in this Paragraph 
11.  All other terms of this Award Agreement, including the other forfeiture and repayment events in 
Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT Appendix], continue to apply.
(a)
[Retirement or] Extended Absence and No Association With a Covered Enterprise.
(i)
Generally.  If your Employment terminates by [Retirement or] Extended 
Absence, your Outstanding RSUs that are not Vested will be treated as Vested.  However, your 
rights to any Outstanding RSU that are treated as Vested by this Paragraph 11(a)(i) will 
terminate and no RSU Share will be delivered in respect of that RSU if you Associate With 
a Covered Enterprise on or before the originally scheduled Vesting Date for that RSU.  You 
acknowledge and agree that if any portion of the preceding sentence is unenforceable under 
applicable law, or is found to be unenforceable, then the entirety of this Paragraph 11(a)(i) is 
inapplicable to you and your rights to any Outstanding RSUs that were treated as Vested, or 
otherwise would have been treated as Vested, will be cancelled in accordance with Paragraph 
9(a).
(ii)
Special Treatment for Involuntary or Mutual Agreement Termination.  The 
second sentence of Paragraph 11(a)(i) (relating to forfeiture if you Associate With a Covered 
Enterprise) will not apply if (A) the Firm characterizes your Employment termination as 
“involuntary” or by “mutual agreement” (and, in each case, you have not engaged in conduct 
constituting Cause) and (B) you execute a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement 
to pay any associated tax liability, in each case, in the form the Firm prescribes.  No Employment 
termination that you initiate, including any purported “constructive termination,” a “termination 
for good reason” or similar concepts, can be “involuntary” or by “mutual agreement.”
(b)
[Downsizing.  If (i) the Firm terminates your Employment solely by reason of a 
“downsizing” (and you have not engaged in conduct constituting Cause) and (ii) you execute a general 
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, in each case, in the 
form the Firm prescribes, your Outstanding RSUs that are not yet Vested will become Vested.  Whether 
or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a “downsizing” will be determined by the Firm 
in its sole discretion.]
(c)
[Approved Terminations of Fixed-Term Employees.  If the Firm classifies you as a 
“fixed-term” employee and your Employment terminates solely by reason of an Approved Termination 
(and you have not engaged in conduct constituting Cause), your Outstanding RSUs that are not yet Vested 
will become Vested.]  
12.
Accelerated Vesting, Delivery and/or Release of Transfer Restrictions in the Event 
of [a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] Death.  In 
the event of your [Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] 
death, [each] as described below, then Paragraph 9(a) will not apply, your Outstanding RSUs and any 
Shares at Risk will be treated as described in this Paragraph 12, and, except as set forth in Paragraph 
- 5 -
12(a), all other terms of this Award Agreement, including the other forfeiture and repayment events in 
Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT Appendix], continue to apply.
(a)
[You Have a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control.  If your Employment 
terminates when you meet the requirements of a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control, the 
RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding RSUs (whether or not Vested) will be delivered, and any 
Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply.  In addition, the forfeiture events in Paragraph 9 [(except the 
MRT Appendix)] will not apply to your Award.]
(b)
[You Are Determined to Have Accepted Conflicted Employment.
(i)
Generally.  To the extent consistent with applicable law, regulation and 
regulatory guidance, the following will apply as soon as practicable after the Committee has 
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.
(A)
Vesting.  If your Employment terminates solely because you 
resign to accept Conflicted Employment and, according to the Firm’s records, you have 
completed at least three years of continuous service with the Firm as of the date your 
Employment terminates, your Outstanding RSUs will Vest; otherwise, you will forfeit any 
Outstanding RSUs that are not Vested in accordance with Paragraph 9(a). 
(B)
Delivery and Release of Transfer Restrictions.  If your 
Employment terminates solely because you resign to accept Conflicted Employment or if, 
following your termination of Employment, you notify the Firm that you are accepting Conflicted 
Employment, RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of your Outstanding Vested RSUs 
(including in the form of cash as described in Paragraph 13(e)(ii)) and any Transfer Restrictions 
will cease to apply.
(ii)
You May Have to Take Other Steps to Address Conflicts of Interest.  The 
Committee retains the authority to exercise its rights under the Award Agreement or the Plan 
(including Section 1.3.2 of the Plan) to take or require you to take other steps it determines in its 
sole discretion to be necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest 
(which may include a determination that the accelerated vesting, delivery and/or release of 
Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 12(b)(i) will not apply because such actions are not 
necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest).]
(c)
Death.  If you die, the RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding RSUs (whether or not 
Vested) will be delivered to your Account and any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply as soon as 
practicable after the date of death and receipt of any documentation as may be requested by the 
Committee or a SIP Administrator.
Other Terms and Conditions of Your Award
13.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Consents.
(a)
[You Will Be Required to Accept Additional Terms.  In addition to the terms of the 
Award Agreement, the Award Documentation includes other contractual terms that you must accept as a 
condition of the Award (the “Additional Terms”).  By accepting the Award and executing the Signature 
Card, you agree to any such Additional Terms applicable to you as set forth in the Award Documentation, 
which will include but are not limited to the following:  
(i)
Notice Period Policy.  You must agree to abide by the terms, as applicable to 
you, of the Policy on Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based Awards and Other 
Deferred Compensation (the “Notice Period Policy”). 
- 6 -
(ii)
Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters.  You must 
agree to the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which imposes 
obligations in addition to those contained in Paragraph 16.
(iii)
APAC Restrictive Covenants.  If you are employed by the Firm in the Asia-
Pacific Region (e.g., Australia, the People’s Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, 
Taiwan), you must agree to the APAC Restrictive Covenants Agreement.
(iv)
Role-, Business- or Division-Specific Agreements.  If applicable to you, you 
must accept Additional Terms related to your specific role, business unit or division as set forth in 
the Award Documentation.]
(b)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Delivery of RSU Shares is 
conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the 
Plan, which includes the Firm deducting or withholding amounts from any payment or distribution to you.  
In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to 
provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, state, local, foreign or other tax obligations 
imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant, Vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring 
you to choose between remitting the amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) 
in the form of proceeds from the Firm’s executing a sale of RSU Shares delivered to you under this 
Award.  In no event, however, does this Paragraph 13(b) give you any discretion to determine or affect 
the timing of the delivery of RSU Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.  
(c)
You Must Comply with Applicable Deadlines and Procedures to Appeal.  If you disagree 
with a determination made by the Committee, the SIP Administrators or any of their delegates or 
designees relating to the Plan or the Award Agreement and you wish to appeal such determination, you 
must submit a written request to the Committee for review within 180 days after the determination at 
issue.  You must exhaust your internal administrative remedies (i.e., submit your appeal and wait for 
resolution of that appeal) before seeking to resolve a dispute, controversy or claim through arbitration 
pursuant to Paragraph 16 and Section 3.17 of the Plan.
(d)
You May Be Required to Certify Compliance with Award Terms; You Are Responsible 
for Providing Updated Address and Contact Information After Your Departure from the Firm.  If your 
Employment terminates while you continue to hold RSUs or Shares at Risk, the Firm may require you to 
provide certifications of your compliance with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  
You understand and agree that (i) your contact information as reflected in the Firm’s personnel records at 
the time any certification is requested will be deemed current; (ii) it is your responsibility to inform HCM 
of any changes to your contact information to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, 
regardless of whether your contact information is provided to another part of the Firm; and (iii) you are 
responsible for contacting the Firm to obtain such certification materials if not received.  Your failure to 
return properly completed certification materials by the specified deadline (including because you did not 
provide HCM with updated contact information) will result in the forfeiture of all of your RSUs and any 
Shares at Risk and subject previously delivered amounts to repayment under Paragraph 9(c)(iv). 
(e)
You Agree to Other Terms, Conditions and Consents.  By accepting this Award you 
understand and agree that:
(i)
Amounts May Be Rounded to Avoid Fractional RSU Shares.  RSUs that become 
Vested, RSU Shares that become deliverable and RSU Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions 
may, in each case, be rounded to avoid fractional RSU Shares.
(ii)
Firm May Deliver Cash or Other Property Instead of RSU Shares.  In accordance 
with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the sole discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any 
portion of the RSU Shares, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under the 
Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of RSU Shares 
will include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other 
property.
- 7 -
(iii)
Firm May Deliver Your Award into an Escrow Account.  The Firm may establish 
and maintain an escrow account on such terms (which may include your executing any 
documents related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such account) as it may 
deem necessary or appropriate, and the delivery of RSU Shares (including any Shares at Risk), 
and any payment of cash (including dividends [and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights]) 
or other property, may initially be made into and held in that escrow account until such time as 
the Committee has received such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee 
has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares, cash or other 
property required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied.
(iv)
Firm May Affix Legends and Place Stop Orders on RSU Shares.  GS Inc. may 
affix to Certificates representing RSU Shares any legend that the Committee determines to be 
necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under 
the Additional Terms, a separate agreement or any Firm policy applicable to you).  GS Inc. may 
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended RSU Shares.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, RSU Shares as used herein includes, without limitation, Restricted Shares.
(v)
You Authorize the Firm to Register, in Its or Its Designee’s Name, Any 
Restricted Shares and Sell, Assign or Transfer Any Forfeited Restricted Shares.  You are granting 
to the Firm the full power and authority to register any Restricted Shares in its or its designee’s 
name and authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell, assign or transfer any Restricted Shares if 
you forfeit your Restricted Shares.
(vi)
You Agree to Certain Consents as a Condition to the Award.  You have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying 
to any third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as 
the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional 
consents that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
(vii)
You Are Subject to the Firm’s Policies, Rules and Procedures.  You are subject 
to the Firm’s policies in effect from time to time concerning trading in RSU Shares and hedging 
or pledging RSU Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards (including, without 
limitation, the “Firmwide Policy with Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities 
and GS Equity Awards” or any successor policies), and confidential or proprietary information, 
and you will effect sales of RSU Shares in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be 
adopted from time to time (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the 
timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or 
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm).
(viii)
You Are Responsible for Costs Associated with Your Award.  You will be 
responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with your RSUs, 
including those related to the sale of RSU Shares.
(ix)
You Will Be Deemed to Represent Your Compliance with All the Terms of Your 
Award if You Accept Delivery of, or Sell, RSU Shares.  You will be deemed to have represented 
and certified that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement 
when RSU Shares are delivered to you[, you receive payment in respect of Dividend Equivalent 
Rights] and you request the sale of RSU Shares following the release of any Transfer 
Restrictions.
(x)
You Agree that Covered Persons Will Not Have Liability.  In addition to and 
without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor 
any Covered Person will have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or 
omitted in respect of this or any other Award. 
14.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the 
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported sale, exchange, 
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition (including 
- 8 -
through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntary or involuntary, in violation of the 
provisions of this Paragraph 14 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  
15.
Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 18(h), the obligation to deliver RSU 
Shares, to pay dividends [or payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] or to remove any Transfer 
Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the 
Firm’s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any 
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement. 
Arbitration, Choice of Forum and Governing Law
16.
Arbitration; Choice of Forum.
(a)
By accepting this award, you are indicating that you understand and agree that the 
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Section 3.17 of the Plan will apply to this 
Award to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.  These provisions, which are expressly 
incorporated herein by reference, provide among other things that any dispute, controversy or 
claim between the Firm and you arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or this Award 
Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration, pursuant to the terms more fully set forth in 
Section 3.17 of the Plan; provided that nothing herein shall preclude you from filing a charge with 
or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by any governmental authority, 
including but not limited to the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and a state 
or local human rights agency, as well as law enforcement.
(b)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement includes an agreement to arbitrate claims 
on a collective, class or representative basis.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider class, collective or representative claims, to order 
consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief other than on an individual basis to the 
individual claimant involved.
(c)
Notwithstanding any applicable forum rules to the contrary, to the extent there is a 
question of enforceability of the Plan or this Award Agreement arising from a challenge to the arbitrator’s 
jurisdiction or to the arbitrability of a claim, it will be decided by a court and not an arbitrator.
(d)
Prior to filing any arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16(a), you must first exhaust 
your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c), which includes awaiting the 
Committee’s final determination of any such appeal.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider any dispute, controversy or claim as to which you have not 
first exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c).
(e)
The Federal Arbitration Act governs interpretation and enforcement of all arbitration 
provisions under the Plan and this Award Agreement, and all arbitration proceedings thereunder.
(f)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement creates a substantive right to bring a claim 
under U.S. Federal, state, or local employment laws.
(g)
By accepting your Award, you irrevocably appoint each General Counsel of GS Inc., or 
any person whom the General Counsel of GS Inc. designates, as your agent for service of process in 
connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any 
Award which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.17.1 of the Plan, who shall promptly 
advise you of any such service of process.
(h)
As a condition of your Award, you also must accept the terms of the Agreement 
Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which is included among the Additional 
Terms described in Paragraph 13(a) and sets forth obligations independent of this Paragraph 16.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the obligation to exhaust your internal remedies described in 
- 9 -
Paragraph 13(c) and Paragraph 16(d) only applies to disputes, controversies or claims relating to 
the Plan or the Award Agreement.
17.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
18.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 18 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are intended and 
will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements applicable to, or the 
conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), whether by reason of short-
term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The Committee will have full authority to give 
effect to this intent.  To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or 
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and 
this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any 
conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 18 and the other provisions of this Award 
Agreement, this Paragraph 18 will govern.
(b)
Delivery of RSU Shares will not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable 
conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares required by this Award Agreement (including those 
specified in Paragraphs 6, 7, 11(a)(ii), 11(b), 12(c) and 13 and the consents and other items specified in 
Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied.  To the extent that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy 
the requirements for short-term deferral treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion will 
occur by the March 15 coinciding with the last day of the applicable “short-term deferral” period 
described in Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for the delivery of RSU Shares to be within the short-term 
deferral exception unless, in order to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be 
satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted 
in accordance with Section 409A, to delay delivery of RSU Shares to a later date within the same 
calendar year or to such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 1.409A-3(d).  
For the avoidance of doubt, if the Award includes a “series of installment payments” as described in Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), your right to the series of installment payments will be treated as a right to a series of 
separate payments and not as a right to a single payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 13(e) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the 
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that the 
Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs will not have the effect of deferring delivery or payment, 
income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such delivery, payment or 
inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to the RSU Shares that would 
otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to 
Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section 409A, including and to the 
extent applicable, the subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)).
(d)
Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 12(c), the delivery of RSU Shares 
referred to therein will be made after the date of death and not later than the end of the calendar year 
following the calendar year that includes the date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted 
under Section 409A).
(e)
The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 12(a) will occur on the earlier 
of (i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of 
Employment occurs; provided, however, that if you are a “specified employee” (as defined by the Firm in 
accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery will occur on the earlier of the Delivery 
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the date that 
is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during a Window Period, 
the first trading day of the next Window Period).  For purposes of Paragraph 12(a), references in this 
- 10 -
Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination of Employment from the Firm (as 
defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with 
Section 409A).
(f)
[Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the 
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs will be paid to 
you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular cash 
dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock the record date for which occurs on or 
after the Date of Grant.  The payment will be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such 
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the RSU Shares underlying such 
Outstanding RSUs.]
(g)
The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 12(b)(i) will be the earlier of 
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee receives 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or 
payment will be made, and any Committee action referred to in Paragraph 12(b)(ii) will be taken, only at 
such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the 
imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.  
(h)
Paragraph 15 and Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A 
Deferred Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
(i)
Delivery of RSU Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent 
elected by the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, 
in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred Compensation, only to the extent that the later 
delivery is permitted under Section 409A).  
(j)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any taxes 
and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to designate, directly or 
indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.
Committee Authority, Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting 
19.
Committee Authority.  The Committee has the authority to determine, in its sole 
discretion, that any event triggering forfeiture or repayment of your Award will not apply, to limit the 
forfeitures and repayments that result under Paragraphs 9 and 10 and to remove any Transfer Restrictions 
before the applicable Transferability Date.  In addition, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may 
determine whether Paragraphs 11(a)(ii) and 11(b) will apply upon a termination of Employment and 
whether a termination of Employment constitutes an Approved Termination under Paragraph 11(c).
20.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement and the 
Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan.  A modification that impacts the tax 
consequences of this Award or the timing of delivery of RSU Shares will not be an amendment that 
materially adversely affects your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement.  Any amendment of 
this Award Agreement will be in writing.
21.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.    
- 11 -
22.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities; Protected Communications.  
In accordance with applicable law, nothing in this Award Agreement (including the forfeiture and 
repayment provisions in Paragraphs 9 and 10) or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from engaging in protected concerted activity pursuant to applicable law protecting such activity, 
including discussing wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of your employment; or speaking with 
your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations.  In addition, nothing in this Award 
Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting channels that are 
available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation.
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
- 13 -
[EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider certain factors to 
determine whether and what portion of your Award will terminate, including the reason for the Loss 
Event or Risk Event, as well as the extent to which you participated in the Loss Event or Risk Event and 
your compensation for ____ may or may not have been adjusted to take into account the risk associated 
with the Loss Event, Risk Event, your Serious Misconduct or the Serious Misconduct of a Supervised 
Employee.  Your compensation may be adjusted for the year in which the Loss Event, Risk Event, your 
Serious Misconduct or a Supervised Employee’s Serious Misconduct is discovered.
(a)
A Loss Event Occurs Prior to Delivery.  If a Loss Event occurs prior to the delivery of 
RSU Shares, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) which are 
scheduled to deliver on the next Delivery Date immediately following the date that the Loss Event is 
identified (or, if not practicable, then the next following Delivery Date) will terminate, and no RSU 
Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs.  
(i)
“Loss Event” means (A) an annual pre-tax loss at GS Inc. or (B) annual negative 
revenues in one or more reporting segments as disclosed in the Firm’s Form 10-K other than the 
Asset & Wealth Management segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as 
determined by the Firm), or annual negative revenues in the Asset & Wealth Management 
segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by the Firm) of 
$5 billion or more, provided in either case that you are employed in a business within such 
reporting segment.
(b)
A Risk Event Occurs On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If a Risk Event occurs on 
or before the Applicable End Date, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or 
not Vested) will terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights 
to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled and (iii) 
you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the 
greater of the Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of 
the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) 
determined as of (A) the date the Risk Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is 
made.  
(i)
“Risk Event” means there occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital 
from a reportable operational risk event determined in accordance with the firmwide Reporting 
and Operational Risk Events Policy (or any successor policy).  
(c)
You Engage in Serious Misconduct On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If you 
engage in Serious Misconduct during the period beginning on the applicable Transferability Date through 
the Applicable End Date, you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an 
amount not in excess of the greater of the Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend 
payments) delivered in respect of the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax 
withholding or other obligations) determined as of (i) the date the Serious Misconduct occurred and (ii) 
the date that the repayment request is made.  
- 14 -
(i)
“Serious Misconduct” means that you engage in conduct that the Firm 
reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary 
termination of employment under applicable employment law.  
(d)
A Supervised Employee Engages in Serious Misconduct.  If the Committee determines 
that it is appropriate to hold you accountable in whole or in part for Serious Misconduct related to 
compliance, control or risk that occurred during ____ by a Supervised Employee, your rights in respect of 
all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered 
in respect of such RSUs and your rights to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such 
Shares at Risk will be cancelled. 
(i)
“Supervised Employee” means an individual with respect to whom the 
Committee determines you had supervisory responsibility as a result of direct or indirect 
reporting lines or your management responsibility for an office, division or business. 
(e)
Certain Definitions.  
(i)
“Applicable End Date” means[__________][, with respect to each classification 
in the table below, the following:
Classification
Applicable End Date
EU MRT
__________
GSAMI MRT
__________
GSAMI Senior Management
__________
UK MRT
__________]
(ii)
“EU MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a (A) Material Risk Taker in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of the 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive or Undertakings for Collective Investment in 
Transferable Securities V (“AIFMD-UCITS”), including “Identified Staff” under AIFMD-UCITS 
(“AIFMD-UCITS Identified Staff”), as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management, B.V. (“GSAMBV”), Goldman Sachs Asset Management Belgium, S.A. 
(“GSAM Belgium”) or Goldman Sachs Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych S.A. (“GS 
TFI”), including any branch of subsidiary thereof (collectively, “GSAM Europe”), whether or not 
GSAM Europe has employed such individual; or (B) an individual who, at any point in ____, was 
classified by the Firm with respect to Goldman Sachs Paris Inc. et Cie in accordance with the 
applicable remuneration rules of either the Capital Requirements Directive V or the Investment 
Firms Regulation/Investment Firms Directive, as a Material Risk Taker (“GSPIC MRT”) or 
Senior Management (“GSPIC Senior Management”).  EU MRT does not include AIFMD-UCITS 
Identified Staff of Goldman Sachs Asset Management Fund Services Ltd. (“GSAMFSL”).
(iii)
“GSAMI MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified 
by the Firm as a GSAMI Material Risk Taker in accordance with the remuneration code under the 
UK Investment Firms Prudential Regime (“IFPR”) as applicable to the business operations of 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Ltd. (“GSAMI”).  
(iv)
“GSAMI Senior Management” means an individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a GSAMI Senior Management in accordance with the remuneration 
code under the IFPR as applicable to the business operations of GSAMI.  
(v)
“UK MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a Material Risk Taker (including UK Risk Managers and UK PRA Senior Managers) in 
accordance with the remuneration codes applicable to dual-regulated UK firms.
(vi)
For purposes of these definitions, if during ____ you were classified by the Firm 
as any combination of EU MRT and GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT 
- 15 -
then your classification in the table above is EU MRT; any combination of GSAMI MRT or 
GSAMI Senior Management and UK MRT then your classification in the table above is UK 
MRT; or as a combination of GSAMI MRT and GSAMI Senior Management then your 
classification in the table above is GSAMI Senior Management.
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Appendix 
(including your refusal to remit payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with 
Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of 
such dispute, controversy or claim (including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 16 -
[GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider all relevant factors in 
making the decision, in its sole discretion as to whether an Adjustment Event or Actionable Misconduct 
have occurred.  
This Appendix applies to all RSUs in your Award if you are a GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management.
(a)
An Adjustment Event Occurs with Respect to ____.  If an Adjustment Event occurs with 
respect to ____, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will 
terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a portion 
of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, and (iii) you will be 
obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the 
Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award 
(without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as 
of (A) the date the Adjustment Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.
(i)
“Adjustment Event” means that one of the following has occurred:
(A)
you significantly contributed to, or were responsible for, any conduct that 
resulted in a loss of 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc.;
(B)
 a material regulatory sanction for the Firm comprising one or more of 
the following: 
1.
a moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g of the German Banking Act, 
2.
a measure in case of danger pursuant to sec. 46 of the German 
Banking Act, 
3.
the revocation of appointment of a manager pursuant to sec. 36 
German Banking Act, 
4.
a fine pursuant to sec. 56 of the German Banking Act or a 
threatened penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment 
amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc., 
5.
the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 of the 
German Banking Act, 
6.
an order to increase the capital requirements Goldman Sachs 
Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 
of the German Banking Act, 
7.
a measure in case of organizational deficiencies, 
8.
a comparable regulatory order, or
9.
a material supervisory measure; or
(C)
you acted in serious violation of relevant external or internal rules with 
respect to suitability and conduct, provided that a violation is considered serious if it 
suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant to sec. 626 German 
Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct pursuant to sec. 1 German 
Termination Protection Act. 
(b)
You Engage in Actionable Misconduct.  If the Committee determines that you engaged in 
Actionable Misconduct, which if known (or if known, adequately considered) would have resulted in a 
reduction to your annual variable compensation when your variable compensation for that year was 
determined, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate 
and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs.
(i)
“Actionable Misconduct” means either or both of:
(A)
“Unethical behavior” within the meaning of the IVV;
(B)
“Breach of duty” within the meaning of the IVV. 
(ii)
“IVV” means the German Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions 
(Institutsvergütungsverordnung) and applicable guidance from the German Federal Financial 
Supervisory Authority (BaFin) or the European Central Bank.
(c)
Scope of Appendix.  This Appendix applies to any individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a Material Risk Taker (“GSBE MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSBE 
Senior Management”) in connection with the business operations of GSBE or any branch or subsidiary 
thereof, whether or not GSBE or any branch or subsidiary thereof employed such individual.  
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by this Appendix (including your refusal to remit 
payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement 
and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of such dispute, controversy or claim 
(including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 2 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings:
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A.  
(b) “Acceptance Deadline” means the date communicated to you by the Firm as the deadline 
to accept your Award.  The Acceptance Deadline will be no less than 14 days after the Award 
Documentation is first made available to you in full.  To the extent you are entitled to a translation in 
accordance with the Language Notice for Equity Awards provided to you as part of the Award 
Documentation, the Acceptance Deadline will be extended by the time required to furnish you with any 
such translation.
(c) “Approved Termination” means that you are classified by the Firm as a “fixed-term 
employee” and you (i) successfully complete the fixed-term engagement, as determined by the Firm in its 
sole discretion, including remaining Employed through the completion date specified by the Firm, and (ii) 
terminate Employment immediately after the completion date without any “stay-on” or other agreement 
or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm.  If you agree to stay with the Firm as an 
employee after your fixed-term engagement ends and then later terminate Employment, you will not have 
an Approved Termination.
(d) “Associate With a Covered Enterprise” means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or 
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Covered Enterprise or (ii) associate 
in any capacity (including association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or 
advisor) with any Covered Enterprise.  Associate With a Covered Enterprise may include, as determined 
in the discretion of the Committee, (i) becoming the subject of any publicly available announcement or 
report of a pending or future association with a Covered Enterprise and (ii) unpaid associations, including 
an association in contemplation of future employment.  “Association With a Covered Enterprise” will 
have its correlative meaning.  
(e) “Breached an Obligation to the Firm” means that you failed to meet, in any respect, any 
obligation under any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with your 
Employment or this Award (including any applicable Additional Terms); including, without limitation, 
any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders’ agreement relating to the Firm.  Your failure 
to pay or reimburse the Firm, on demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm will constitute (i) failure to 
meet an obligation you have under an agreement, regardless of whether such obligation arises under a 
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause.
(f) “Committee” means the Compensation Committee unless otherwise determined by the 
Board; provided, however, that: (i) the authority of the Compensation Committee to administer the Plan 
and the Award may be granted or delegated to the SIP Committee, in which case “Committee” means the 
SIP Committee when acting pursuant to such a grant or delegation; (ii) to the extent the Board determines 
it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) 
or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, “Committee” shall be a committee or 
subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a “non-employee 
director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3; and (iii) to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate 
for the compensation realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” 
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, “Committee” shall be a committee or subcommittee of 
the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning 
of Code Section 162(m).  
(g) “Compensation Committee” means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(h) “Conflicted Employment” means your employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local 
government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or international organization, any self-
regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any 
other employer (other than an “Accounting Firm” within the meaning of SEC Rule 2-01(f)(2) of 
Regulation S-X or any successor thereto) determined by the Committee, if, as a result of such 
employment, your continued holding of any Outstanding RSUs or Shares at Risk would result in an actual 
or perceived conflict of interest.    
(i) “Covered Enterprise” means a Competitive Enterprise and any other existing or planned 
business enterprise that:  (i) offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer 
products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by the Firm or that the Firm 
reasonably expects to offer (“Firm Products or Services”) or (ii) engages in, holds itself out as engaging in 
or reasonably may be expected to engage in any other activity that is the same as or similar to any 
financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to engage (“Firm 
Activities”).  For the avoidance of doubt, Firm Activities include any activity that requires the same or 
similar skills as any financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to 
engage, irrespective of whether any such financial activity is in furtherance of an advisory, agency, 
proprietary or fiduciary undertaking.
The enterprises covered by this definition include enterprises that offer, hold themselves out as 
offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services, or engage in, hold themselves 
out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities directly, as well as those 
that do so indirectly by ownership or control (e.g., by owning, being owned by or by being under common 
ownership with an enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to 
offer Firm Products or Services or that engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be 
expected to engage in Firm Activities).  The definition of Covered Enterprise includes, solely by way of 
example, any enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer any 
product or service, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage 
in any activity, in any case, associated with investment banking; public or private finance; lending; 
financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than you or your family members 
(including, for the avoidance of doubt, any type of proprietary investing or trading); private wealth 
management; private banking; consumer or commercial cash management; consumer, digital or 
commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge fund management; insurance or 
reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or securities, futures, commodities, energy, 
derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance, settlement or trading.  
An enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products 
or Services, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in 
Firm Activities is a Covered Enterprise, irrespective of whether the enterprise is a customer, client or 
counterparty of the Firm or is otherwise associated with the Firm and, because the Firm is a global 
enterprise, irrespective of where the Covered Enterprise is physically located.
(j) “Delivery Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the month 
and year specified on your Award Statement as a delivery date, so long as any such date occurs before the 
29th day of the month specified on the Award Statement; if there is no such date, the Delivery Date will 
- 2 -
be the earlier of another date selected by the Committee in the month and year specified on the Award 
Statement or the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.
(k) “Failed to Consider Risk” means that you participated (or otherwise oversaw or were 
responsible for, depending on the circumstances, another individual’s participation) in the structuring or 
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the 
purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the 
risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly 
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result 
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to 
be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system.  This 
definition is not limited to financial risks and is designed to encourage the consideration of the full range 
of risks associated with activities (e.g., legal, compliance or reputational).  This definition also does not 
require that a material adverse impact actually occur, but, rather, may be triggered if it is determined that 
there is a reasonable expectation of such an impact.
(l) “HCM” means the Firm’s Human Capital Management Division or its successor.
(m) “Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control” means that the Firm terminates your 
Employment other than for Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, in each case, 
within 18 months following a Change in Control.
(n) “SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(o) “Selected Firm Personnel” means any individual who is or in the three months preceding 
the conduct prohibited by Paragraph 9(b)[(i)] was (i) a Firm employee or consultant with whom you 
personally worked while employed by the Firm, (ii) a Firm employee or consultant who, at any time 
during the year preceding the date of the termination of your Employment, worked in the same division in 
which you worked or (iii) an Advisory Director, a Managing Director (Participating or Extended) or a 
Senior Advisor of the Firm.
(p) “Shares at Risk” means RSU Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions. 
(q) “Signature Card” means the document and/or website presented to you with your Award 
that you are required to execute (including electronically) to indicate your acceptance of the Award, the 
Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and the terms contained in the Signature Card) and 
Additional Terms applicable to you, as well your receipt of the Award Documentation.
(r) “Transferability Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the 
month and year specified on your Award Statement as a transferability date; provided, however, that if 
there is no trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the specified month and year, the 
Transferability Date will be the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.  
- 3 -
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.  
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(c) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(d) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(e) “Cause” means (i) the Grantee’s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty 
or nolo contendere (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving 
fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, 
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge, or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses 
(A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations, (ii) the Grantee’s engaging in any 
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory 
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act), (iii) the Grantee’s willful failure to perform the 
Grantee’s duties to the Firm, (iv) the Grantee’s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules 
or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities 
exchange or association of which the Firm is a member, (v) the Grantee’s violation of any Firm policy 
concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or the Grantee’s material 
violation of any other Firm policy as in effect from time to time, (vi) the Grantee’s engaging in any act or 
making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the 
name, reputation or business interests of the Firm or (vii) the Grantee’s engaging in any conduct 
detrimental to the Firm.  The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the 
Committee in its sole discretion and, in such case, the Committee also may, but shall not be required to, 
specify the date such Cause occurred (including by determining that a prior termination of Employment 
was for Cause).  Any rights the Firm may have hereunder and in any Award Agreement in respect of the 
events giving rise to Cause shall be in addition to the rights the Firm may have under any other agreement 
with a Grantee or at law or in equity.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Change in Control” means the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share 
exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving GS Inc. (a “Reorganization”) or sale or other 
disposition of all or substantially all of GS Inc.’s assets to an entity that is not an affiliate of GS Inc. (a 
“Sale”), that in each case requires the approval of GS Inc.’s shareholders under the law of GS Inc.’s 
jurisdiction of organization, whether for such Reorganization or Sale (or the issuance of securities of GS 
Inc. in such Reorganization or Sale), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale, either:  
(i) at least 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the 
case of an entity other than a corporation) of (A) the entity resulting from such Reorganization, or the 
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc. in a Sale (in either case, the 
“Surviving Entity”), or (B) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has beneficial 
- 4 -
ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as such Rule is in effect on the 
date of the adoption of the 1999 SIP) of 50% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election 
of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity 
(the “Parent Entity”) is represented by GS Inc.’s securities (the “GS Inc. Securities”) that were 
outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares 
into which such GS Inc. Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale) or (ii) at least 
50% of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a 
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the 
consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the Board’s approval of the execution of 
the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, individuals (the “Incumbent Directors”) 
who either (A) were members of the Board on the Effective Date or (B) became directors subsequent to 
the Effective Date and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-
thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of GS Inc.’s 
proxy statement in which such persons are named as nominees for director).
(h) “Client” means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the Grantee provided 
services, or for whom the Grantee transacted business, or whose identity became known to the Grantee in 
connection with the Grantee’s relationship with or employment by the Firm.
(i) “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the 
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
(j) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(k) “Competitive Enterprise” means an existing or planned business enterprise that (i) 
engages, or may reasonably be expected to engage, in any activity; (ii) owns or controls, or may 
reasonably be expected to own or control, a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity 
or (iii) is, or may reasonably be expected to be, owned by, or a significant interest in which is, or may 
reasonably be expected to be, owned or controlled by, any entity that engages in any activity that, in any 
case, competes or will compete anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged.  The activities 
covered by this definition include, without limitation: financial services such as investment banking; 
public or private finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than the 
Grantee and members of the Grantee’s family (including for the avoidance of doubt, any type of 
proprietary investing or trading); private wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial 
cash management; consumer, digital or commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge 
fund management; insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or 
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, 
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.
(l) “Covered Person” means a member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of 
the Firm.
(m) “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
(n) [“Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award.] 
- 5 -
(o) “Effective Date” means the date this Plan is approved by the shareholders of GS Inc. 
pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Plan.
(p) “Employment” means the Grantee’s performance of services for the Firm, as determined 
by the Committee.  The terms “employ” and “employed” shall have their correlative meanings.  The 
Committee in its sole discretion may determine (i) whether and when a Grantee’s leave of absence results 
in a termination of Employment (for this purpose, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Grantee 
shall be treated as terminating Employment with the Firm upon the occurrence of an Extended Absence), 
(ii) whether and when a change in a Grantee’s association with the Firm results in a termination of 
Employment and (iii) the impact, if any, of any such leave of absence or change in association on Awards 
theretofore made.  Unless expressly provided otherwise, any references in the Plan or any Award 
Agreement to a Grantee’s Employment being terminated shall include both voluntary and involuntary 
terminations.  
(q) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(r) “Extended Absence” means the Grantee’s inability to perform for six (6) continuous 
months, due to illness, injury or pregnancy-related complications, substantially all the essential duties of 
the Grantee’s occupation, as determined by the Committee.
(s) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(t) “Good Reason” means, in connection with a termination of employment by a Grantee 
following a Change in Control, (i) as determined by the Committee, a materially adverse alteration in the 
Grantee’s position or in the nature or status of the Grantee’s responsibilities from those in effect 
immediately prior to the Change in Control or (ii) the Firm’s requiring the Grantee’s principal place of 
Employment to be located more than seventy-five (75) miles from the location where the Grantee is 
principally Employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required travel on the Firm’s 
business to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee’s customary business travel obligations in 
the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).
(u) “Grantee” means a person who receives an Award.
(v) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(w) “1999 SIP” means The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect prior to 
the effective date of the 2003 SIP.
(x) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, cancelled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(y) “Restricted Share” means a share of Common Stock delivered under the Plan that is 
subject to Transfer Restrictions, forfeiture provisions and/or other terms and conditions specified herein 
and in the Restricted Share Award Agreement or other applicable Award Agreement.  All references to 
Restricted Shares include “Shares at Risk.”   
(z) “Retirement” means termination of the Grantee’s Employment (other than for Cause) on 
or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of the Grantee’s age plus years of service with 
- 6 -
the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) the Grantee 
has completed at least 10 years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole 
discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) the Grantee has attained age 50 and (B) the Grantee has completed at 
least five years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). 
(aa)“RSU” means a restricted stock unit granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.  
(ab)“RSU Shares” means shares of Common Stock that underlie an RSU.
(ac)“Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(ad)“SIP Administrator” means each person designated by the Committee as a “SIP 
Administrator” with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative functions for the Plan.
(ae)“SIP Committee” means the persons who have been delegated certain authority under the 
Plan by the Committee.  
(af) “Solicit” means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless 
of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, suggesting, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in 
any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action.  The terms “Solicited,” “Soliciting” and 
“Solicitation” will have their correlative meanings.
(ag)“Transfer Restrictions” means restrictions that prohibit the sale, exchange, transfer, 
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposal (including through the use of 
any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by the Grantee, of an Award or any 
shares of Common Stock, cash or other property delivered in respect of an Award.
(ah)“Vested” means, with respect to an Award, the portion of the Award that is not subject to 
a condition that the Grantee remain actively employed by the Firm in order for the Award to remain 
Outstanding.  The fact that an Award becomes Vested shall not mean or otherwise indicate that the 
Grantee has an unconditional or nonforfeitable right to such Award, and such Award shall remain subject 
to such terms, conditions and forfeiture provisions as may be provided for in the Plan or in the Award 
Agreement. 
(ai) “Vesting Date” means each date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as a date 
on which part or all of an Award becomes Vested.
(aj) “Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 7 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
[One-Time][Year-End] RSU Award
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your __________ award of RSUs (your “Award”).  You should 
read carefully this entire document (including its [Appendix][Appendices]), the Award Statement 
and the Signature Card (together, the “Award Agreement”), as well as the other documentation 
presented to you in connection with acceptance of your Award (collectively, “Award 
Documentation”).
Acceptance
1.
You Must Decide Whether to Accept Your Award.  To be eligible for your Award, 
you must by the Acceptance Deadline: (a) open and activate an Account; (b) accept any Additional Terms 
presented to you as part of the Award Documentation; and (c) execute (including by electronic means) the 
accompanying Signature Card in accordance with its instructions.  By executing the Signature Card, you 
confirm your agreement to all of the terms of the Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and 
the Signature Card), as well as any Additional Terms. 
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
2.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  The Plan and its Prospectus are included with the Award 
Documentation. 
3.
Your Award Statement.  The accompanying Award Statement contains the number of 
RSUs awarded to you and some of your Award’s specific terms.  For example, it specifies any applicable 
Delivery Dates and Transferability Dates.
4.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan.  
Vesting of Your RSUs
5.
Vesting.  All of your RSUs are Vested.  When an RSU is Vested, it means only that your 
continued active Employment is not required for delivery of that portion of RSU Shares.  Vesting does 
not mean you have a non-forfeitable right to the Vested portion of your Award.  The terms of this 
Award Agreement (including conditions to delivery and any applicable Transfer Restrictions) 
continue to apply to Vested RSUs, and you can still forfeit Vested RSUs and any RSU Shares.
Delivery of Your RSU Shares
6.
Delivery.  Reasonably promptly (but no more than 30 Business Days) after each Delivery 
Date identified on your Award Statement, RSU Shares (less applicable withholding as described in 
Paragraph 12(b)) will be delivered (by book entry credit to your Account) in respect of the amount of 
Outstanding RSUs listed next to that date.  The Committee may select multiple dates within the 30-
Business-Day period following the Delivery Date to deliver RSU Shares in respect of all or a portion of 
the RSUs with the same Delivery Date listed on the Award Statement, and all such dates will be treated as 
a single Delivery Date for purposes of this Award.  Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a 
general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  Without limiting the Committee’s 
authority under Section 1.3.2(h) of the Plan, the Firm may accelerate any Delivery Date by up to 30 days. 
EXHIBIT 10.35
Transfer Restrictions Following Delivery
7.
Transfer Restrictions and Shares at Risk.  Within 30 Business Days after any 
applicable Transferability Date identified on your Award Statement, GS Inc. will remove the Transfer 
Restrictions on any Shares at Risk in respect of the amount of Outstanding RSUs listed next to that date.  
If your Award Statement reflects a Transferability Date, [__% of the RSU Shares delivered on any 
Delivery Date before tax withholding (or, if the tax withholding rate is greater than 50%, all RSU 
Shares)][all of the RSU Shares delivered on any Delivery Date after tax withholding] will be Shares at 
Risk.  The Committee may select multiple dates within the 30-Business-Day period on which to remove 
Transfer Restrictions for all or a portion of the Shares at Risk with the same Transferability Date, and all 
such dates will be treated as a single Transferability Date for purposes of this Award.  Any purported sale, 
exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in 
violation of the Transfer Restrictions on Shares at Risk will be void.  [If your Award Statement does 
not reflect any Transferability Date, then references to Transfer Restrictions and Shares at Risk in 
this Award Agreement are inapplicable to your Award and this Paragraph 7 does not apply.] 
Dividends
8.
[Dividend Equivalent Rights and] Dividends.  [Each RSU includes a Dividend 
Equivalent Right, which entitles you to receive an amount (less applicable withholding), at or after the 
time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock, 
equal to any regular cash dividend payment that would have been made in respect of an RSU Share 
underlying your Outstanding RSUs for any record date that occurs on or after the Date of Grant.  In 
addition, you][You] will be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend paid in respect 
of any Shares at Risk.  [The RSUs do not include Dividend Equivalent Rights.]
Forfeiture of Your Award
9.
How You May Forfeit Your Award.  This Paragraph 9 sets forth the events that result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of 
up to all other amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with 
Paragraph 10.  More than one event may apply, and in no case will the occurrence of one event limit the 
forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event.  Paragraph 11 
(relating to certain circumstances under which delivery and/or release of Transfer Restrictions may be 
accelerated) provides for exceptions to one or more provisions of this Paragraph 9. 
(a)
RSUs Forfeited Upon Certain Events.  If any of the following occurs, your rights to your 
Outstanding RSUs will terminate, and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, as may 
be further described below:  
(i)
You Associate With a Covered Enterprise.  Except as prohibited by applicable 
law, you Associate With a Covered Enterprise before the applicable Restriction Date.  The 
“Restriction Date” is the first day of the month and year specified as the Delivery Date on your 
Award Statement; e.g., if the specified Delivery Date is ___________, then the applicable 
Restriction Date is ___________.
(ii)
You Solicit Clients or Employees, Interfere with Client or Employee 
Relationships or Participate in the Hiring of Employees.  Before the applicable Delivery Date and 
except as prohibited by applicable law, either:
A.
 you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client 
to transact business with a Covered Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business 
with the Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any 
relationship between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the 
Firm to resign from the Firm, (4) Solicit any Selected Firm Personnel to apply for or accept 
employment (or other association) with any person or entity other than the Firm or (5) participate 
- 2 -
in the hiring of any Selected Firm Personnel by any person or entity other than the Firm 
(including, without limitation, participating in the identification of individuals for potential hire, 
and participating in any hiring decision), whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or 
B.
Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into 
partnership, membership or similar status by any entity where you have, or will have, direct or 
indirect managerial responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel, unless the Committee 
determines that you were not involved in such Solicitation, hiring or acceptance.
(iii)
[GS Inc. Fails to Maintain the Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio.  Before the 
applicable Delivery Date, GS Inc. fails to maintain the required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” 
as defined under Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 
consecutive business days.] 
(iv)
[GS Inc. Is Determined to Be in Default.  Before the applicable Delivery Date, 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the 
“FDIC”) makes a written recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation Authority) of the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act for the appointment of the FDIC 
as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a determination that GS Inc. is “in default” or “in danger of 
default.”]
(b)
RSUs and Shares at Risk Forfeited upon Certain Events.  If any of the following occurs 
(i) your rights to all of your Outstanding RSUs will terminate, and no RSU Shares will be delivered in 
respect of such RSUs and (ii) your rights to any Shares at Risk will terminate and all such Shares at Risk 
will be cancelled, in each case, as may be further described below:
(i)
You Failed to Consider Risk.  You Failed to Consider Risk during ____. 
(ii)
Your Conduct Constitutes Cause.  Any event that constitutes Cause has occurred 
before the applicable Delivery Date for RSUs or the applicable Transferability Date for any 
Shares at Risk.
(iii)
You Breach an Obligation to the Firm.  The Committee determines that, before 
the applicable Delivery Date for RSUs or the applicable Transferability Date for any Shares at 
Risk, you Breached an Obligation to the Firm.
(iv)
You Do Not Provide Timely Certifications or Comply with Your Certifications.  
You fail to certify to GS Inc. that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this 
Award Agreement as required by Paragraph 12(d), or the Committee determines that you have 
failed to comply with a term of the Plan or this Award Agreement to which you have certified 
compliance.
(v)
You Do Not Follow Dispute Resolution Procedures.  You attempt to have any 
dispute, controversy or claim under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any manner 
that is not provided for by Paragraph 15 or Section 3.17 of the Plan, or you attempt to arbitrate a 
dispute, controversy or claim without first having exhausted your internal administrative remedies 
in accordance with Paragraph 12(c). 
(vi)
You Bring an Action that Results in a Determination that Any Award Agreement 
Term Is Invalid.  As a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any term of this 
Award Agreement is invalid. 
(vii)
You Receive Compensation in Respect of Your Award from Another Employer.  
Your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively Employed 
with the Firm and another entity grants you cash, equity or other property (whether vested or 
unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any Outstanding RSUs or Shares at 
- 3 -
Risk; provided, however, that your rights will only be terminated in respect of the RSUs and 
Shares at Risk that are replaced, substituted for or otherwise considered by such other entity in 
making its grant.
(c)
[Additional Forfeiture and Repayment Conditions for Material Risk Takers.  If at any 
point in ____][Since] the Firm identified you as a Material Risk Taker (“MRT”) [in ____] then the EU 
and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix and/or the GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix (as 
applicable to you, the “MRT Appendix”) supplements this Paragraph 9.  The MRT Appendix sets forth 
additional events that (i) result in forfeiture of up to all of your RSUs and Shares at Risk and (ii) may 
require repayment to the Firm of up to all amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award 
in accordance with Paragraph 10.  Your MRT classification, as defined in the MRT Appendix, was 
communicated to you separately.  [If you are unsure of whether the Firm identified you as an MRT, or 
which classification(s) apply, you must contact HCM prior to accepting this Award.]  The Firm’s records 
with respect to such classification(s) will be controlling as to whether and which MRT Appendix applies 
to your Award.  The MRT classifications with their corresponding MRT Appendix are as follows:
MRT Classification
MRT Appendix
EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior 
Management and/or UK MRT
EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT and GSBE Senior Management
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management and 
any combination of EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, 
GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix and 
EU and UK Material Risk Taker 
Appendix]
(d)
Actions Pending Forfeiture.  In connection with any investigation as to whether any of 
the events that would result in forfeiture under the Plan [or][,] this Paragraph 9 [or the MRT Appendix] 
have occurred, the Firm reserves the right to (i) suspend [payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights,] 
delivery of RSU Shares or release of any Transfer Restrictions; (ii) deliver any RSU Shares[, payments 
under Dividend Equivalent Rights] or dividends into an escrow account in accordance with Paragraph 
12(e)(iii); or (iii) apply Transfer Restrictions to any RSU Shares.
Repayment of Your Award
10.
When You May Be Required to Repay Your Award.  If the Committee determines 
that any term of this Award was not satisfied, you will be required, immediately upon demand therefor, to 
repay to the Firm the following:
(a)
Any RSU Shares (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes any Shares at Risk) for 
which the terms (including the terms for delivery) of the related RSUs were not satisfied, in accordance 
with Section 2.6.3 of the Plan.
(b)
Any Shares at Risk for which the terms (including the terms for the release of Transfer 
Restrictions) were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.5.3 of the Plan.
(c)
Any RSU Shares that were delivered (but not subject to Transfer Restrictions) at the same 
time any Shares at Risk that are cancelled or required to be repaid were delivered.
(d)
[Any payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights for which the terms were not satisfied 
(including any such payments made in respect of RSUs that are forfeited or RSU Shares that are cancelled 
or required to be repaid), in accordance with Section 2.8.3 of the Plan.]
(e)
Any dividends paid in respect of any RSU Shares that are cancelled or required to be 
repaid.
- 4 -
(f)
Any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations with respect to any 
RSUs, RSU Shares[,][and] dividend payments [and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] that are 
forfeited or required to be repaid.
Exceptions to Delivery and/or Transferability Dates
11.
Accelerated Delivery and/or Release of Transfer Restrictions in the Event of [a 
Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] Death.  In the 
event of your [Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] death, 
[each] as described below, your Outstanding RSUs and any Shares at Risk will be treated as described in 
this Paragraph 11, and, except as set forth in Paragraph 11(a), all other terms of this Award Agreement, 
including the other forfeiture and repayment events in Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT Appendix], 
continue to apply.
(a)
[You Have a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control.  If your Employment 
terminates when you meet the requirements of a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control, the 
RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding RSUs will be delivered, and any Transfer Restrictions will 
cease to apply.  In addition, the forfeiture events in Paragraph 9 [(except the MRT Appendix)] will not 
apply to your Award.]
(b)
[You Are Determined to Have Accepted Conflicted Employment.
(i)
Generally.  To the extent consistent with applicable law, regulation and 
regulatory guidance, if your Employment terminates solely because you resign to accept 
Conflicted Employment or if, following your termination of Employment, you notify the Firm 
that you are accepting Conflicted Employment, RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of your 
Outstanding RSUs (including in the form of cash as described in Paragraph 12(e)(ii)) and any 
Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply as soon as practicable after the Committee has received 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.
(ii)
You May Have to Take Other Steps to Address Conflicts of Interest.  The 
Committee retains the authority to exercise its rights under the Award Agreement or the Plan 
(including Section 1.3.2 of the Plan) to take or require you to take other steps it determines in its 
sole discretion to be necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest 
(which may include a determination that the accelerated delivery and/or release of Transfer 
Restrictions described in Paragraph 11(b)(i) will not apply because such actions are not necessary 
or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest).]
(c)
Death.  If you die, the RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding RSUs will be delivered 
to your Account and any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply as soon as practicable after the date of 
death and receipt of any documentation as may be requested by the Committee or a SIP Administrator.
Other Terms and Conditions of Your Award
12.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Consents.
(a)
You Will Be Required to Accept Additional Terms.  In addition to the terms of the 
Award Agreement, the Award Documentation includes other contractual terms that you must accept as a 
condition of the Award (the “Additional Terms”).  By accepting the Award and executing the Signature 
Card, you agree to any such Additional Terms applicable to you as set forth in the Award Documentation, 
which will include but are not limited to the following:  
(i)
Notice Period Policy.  You must agree to abide by the terms, as applicable to 
you, of the Policy on Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based Awards and Other 
Deferred Compensation (the “Notice Period Policy”).
- 5 -
(ii)
Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters.  You must 
agree to the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which imposes 
obligations in addition to those contained in Paragraph 15. 
(iii)
APAC Restrictive Covenants.  If you are employed by the Firm in the Asia-
Pacific Region (e.g., Australia, the People’s Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, 
Taiwan), you must agree to the APAC Restrictive Covenants Agreement.
(iv)
Role-, Business- or Division-Specific Agreements.  If applicable to you, you 
must accept Additional Terms related to your specific role, business unit or division as set forth in 
the Award Documentation.
(b)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Delivery of RSU Shares is 
conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the 
Plan, which includes the Firm deducting or withholding amounts from any payment or distribution to you.  
In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to 
provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, state, local, foreign or other tax obligations 
imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant or delivery of this Award by requiring you to 
choose between remitting the amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the 
form of proceeds from the Firm’s executing a sale of RSU Shares delivered to you under this Award.  In 
no event, however, does this Paragraph 12(b) give you any discretion to determine or affect the timing of 
the delivery of RSU Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.  
(c)
You Must Comply with Applicable Deadlines and Procedures to Appeal.  If you disagree 
with a determination made by the Committee, the SIP Administrators or any of their delegates or 
designees relating to the Plan or the Award Agreement and you wish to appeal such determination, you 
must submit a written request to the Committee for review within 180 days after the determination at 
issue.  You must exhaust your internal administrative remedies (i.e., submit your appeal and wait for 
resolution of that appeal) before seeking to resolve a dispute, controversy or claim through arbitration 
pursuant to Paragraph 15 and Section 3.17 of the Plan.
(d)
You May Be Required to Certify Compliance with Award Terms; You Are Responsible 
for Providing Updated Address and Contact Information After Your Departure from the Firm.  If your 
Employment terminates while you continue to hold RSUs or Shares at Risk, the Firm may require you to 
provide certifications of your compliance with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  
You understand and agree that (i) your contact information as reflected in the Firm’s personnel records at 
the time any certification is requested will be deemed current; (ii) it is your responsibility to inform HCM 
of any changes to your contact information to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, 
regardless of whether your contact information is provided to another part of the Firm; and (iii) you are 
responsible for contacting the Firm to obtain such certification materials if not received.  Your failure to 
return properly completed certification materials by the specified deadline (including because you did not 
provide HCM with updated contact information) will result in the forfeiture of all of your RSUs and any 
Shares at Risk and subject previously delivered amounts to repayment under Paragraph 9(b)(iv). 
(e)
You Agree to Other Terms, Conditions and Consents.  By accepting this Award you 
understand and agree that:
(i)
Amounts May Be Rounded to Avoid Fractional RSU Shares.  RSUs that become 
Vested, RSU Shares that become deliverable and RSU Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions 
may, in each case, be rounded to avoid fractional RSU Shares.
(ii)
Firm May Deliver Cash or Other Property Instead of RSU Shares.  In accordance 
with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the sole discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any 
portion of the RSU Shares, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under the 
Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of RSU Shares 
will include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other 
property.
- 6 -
(iii)
Firm May Deliver Your Award into an Escrow Account.  The Firm may establish 
and maintain an escrow account on such terms (which may include your executing any 
documents related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such account) as it may 
deem necessary or appropriate, and the delivery of RSU Shares (including any Shares at Risk), 
and any payment of cash (including dividends [and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights]) 
or other property, may initially be made into and held in that escrow account until such time as 
the Committee has received such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee 
has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares, cash or other 
property required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied.
(iv)
Firm May Affix Legends and Place Stop Orders on RSU Shares.  GS Inc. may 
affix to Certificates representing RSU Shares any legend that the Committee determines to be 
necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under 
the Additional Terms, a separate agreement or any Firm policy applicable to you).  GS Inc. may 
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended RSU Shares.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, RSU Shares as used herein includes, without limitation, Restricted Shares.
(v)
You Authorize the Firm to Register, in Its or Its Designee’s Name, Any 
Restricted Shares and Sell, Assign or Transfer Any Forfeited Restricted Shares.  You are granting 
to the Firm the full power and authority to register any Restricted Shares in its or its designee’s 
name and authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell, assign or transfer any Restricted Shares if 
you forfeit your Restricted Shares.
(vi)
You Agree to Certain Consents as a Condition to the Award.  You have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying 
to any third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as 
the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional 
consents that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
(vii)
You Are Subject to the Firm’s Policies, Rules and Procedures.  You are subject 
to the Firm’s policies in effect from time to time concerning trading in RSU Shares and hedging 
or pledging RSU Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards (including, without 
limitation, the “Firmwide Policy with Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities 
and GS Equity Awards” or any successor policies), and confidential or proprietary information, 
and you will effect sales of RSU Shares in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be 
adopted from time to time (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the 
timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or 
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm).
(viii)
You Are Responsible for Costs Associated with Your Award.  You will be 
responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with your RSUs, 
including those related to the sale of RSU Shares.
(ix)
You Will Be Deemed to Represent Your Compliance with All the Terms of Your 
Award if You Accept Delivery of, or Sell, RSU Shares.  You will be deemed to have represented 
and certified that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement 
when RSU Shares are delivered to you[, you receive payment in respect of Dividend Equivalent 
Rights] and you request the sale of RSU Shares following the release of any Transfer 
Restrictions.
(x)
You Agree that Covered Persons Will Not Have Liability.  In addition to and 
without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor 
any Covered Person will have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or 
omitted in respect of this or any other Award.  
13.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the 
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported sale, exchange, 
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition (including 
- 7 -
through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntary or involuntary, in violation of the 
provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  
14.
Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 17(h), the obligation to deliver RSU 
Shares, to pay dividends [or payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] or to remove any Transfer 
Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the 
Firm’s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any 
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement. 
Arbitration, Choice of Forum and Governing Law
15.
Arbitration; Choice of Forum.
(a)
By accepting this award, you are indicating that you understand and agree that the 
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Section 3.17 of the Plan will apply to this 
Award to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.  These provisions, which are expressly 
incorporated herein by reference, provide among other things that any dispute, controversy or 
claim between the Firm and you arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or this Award 
Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration, pursuant to the terms more fully set forth in 
Section 3.17 of the Plan; provided that nothing herein shall preclude you from filing a charge with 
or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by any governmental authority, 
including but not limited to the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and a state 
or local human rights agency, as well as law enforcement.
(b)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement includes an agreement to arbitrate claims 
on a collective, class or representative basis.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider class, collective or representative claims, to order 
consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief other than on an individual basis to the 
individual claimant involved.
(c)
Notwithstanding any applicable forum rules to the contrary, to the extent there is a 
question of enforceability of the Plan or this Award Agreement arising from a challenge to the arbitrator’s 
jurisdiction or to the arbitrability of a claim, it will be decided by a court and not an arbitrator.
(d)
Prior to filing any arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 15(a), you must first exhaust 
your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 12(c), which includes awaiting the 
Committee’s final determination of any such appeal.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider any dispute, controversy or claim as to which you have not 
first exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 12(c).
(e)
The Federal Arbitration Act governs interpretation and enforcement of all arbitration 
provisions under the Plan and this Award Agreement, and all arbitration proceedings thereunder.
(f)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement creates a substantive right to bring a claim 
under U.S. Federal, state, or local employment laws.
(g)
By accepting your Award, you irrevocably appoint each General Counsel of GS Inc., or 
any person whom the General Counsel of GS Inc. designates, as your agent for service of process in 
connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any 
Award which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.17.1 of the Plan, who shall promptly 
advise you of any such service of process.
(h)
As a condition of your Award, you also must accept the terms of the Agreement 
Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which is included among the Additional 
Terms described in Paragraph 12(a) and sets forth obligations independent of this Paragraph 15.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the obligation to exhaust your internal remedies described in 
- 8 -
Paragraph 12(c) and Paragraph 15(d) only applies to disputes, controversies or claims relating to 
the Plan or the Award Agreement. 
16.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
17.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 17 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are intended and 
will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements applicable to, or the 
conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), whether by reason of short-
term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The Committee will have full authority to give 
effect to this intent.  To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or 
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and 
this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any 
conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 17 and the other provisions of this Award 
Agreement, this Paragraph 17 will govern.
(b)
Delivery of RSU Shares will not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable 
conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares required by this Award Agreement (including those 
specified in Paragraphs 6, 7, 11(c) and 12 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the 
Plan) are satisfied.  To the extent that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for 
short-term deferral treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion will occur by the March 15 
coinciding with the last day of the applicable “short-term deferral” period described in Reg. 
1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for the delivery of RSU Shares to be within the short-term deferral exception 
unless, in order to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be satisfied, the 
Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance 
with Section 409A, to delay delivery of RSU Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to 
such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 1.409A-3(d).  For the avoidance 
of doubt, if the Award includes a “series of installment payments” as described in Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), your right to the series of installment payments will be treated as a right to a series of 
separate payments and not as a right to a single payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 12(e) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the 
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that the 
Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs will not have the effect of deferring delivery or payment, 
income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such delivery, payment or 
inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to the RSU Shares that would 
otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to 
Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section 409A, including and to the 
extent applicable, the subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)).
(d)
Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 11(c), the delivery of RSU Shares 
referred to therein will be made after the date of death and not later than the end of the calendar year 
following the calendar year that includes the date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted 
under Section 409A).
(e)
The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 11(a) will occur on the earlier 
of (i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of 
Employment occurs; provided, however, that if you are a “specified employee” (as defined by the Firm in 
accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery will occur on the earlier of the Delivery 
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the date that 
is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during a Window Period, 
the first trading day of the next Window Period).  For purposes of Paragraph 11(a), references in this 
- 9 -
Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination of Employment from the Firm (as 
defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with 
Section 409A).
(f)
[Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the 
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs will be paid to 
you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular cash 
dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock the record date for which occurs on or 
after the Date of Grant.  The payment will be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such 
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the RSU Shares underlying such 
Outstanding RSUs.]
(g)
The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 11(b)(i) will be the earlier of 
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee receives 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or 
payment will be made, and any Committee action referred to in Paragraph 11(b)(ii) will be taken, only at 
such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the 
imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.  
(h)
Paragraph 14 and Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A 
Deferred Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
(i)
Delivery of RSU Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent 
elected by the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, 
in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred Compensation, only to the extent that the later 
delivery is permitted under Section 409A).  
(j)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any taxes 
and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to designate, directly or 
indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.
Committee Authority, Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting
18.
Committee Authority.  The Committee has the authority to determine, in its sole 
discretion, that any event triggering forfeiture or repayment of your Award will not apply, to limit the 
forfeitures and repayments that result under Paragraphs 9 and 10 and to remove any Transfer Restrictions 
before the applicable Transferability Date.  
19.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement and the 
Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan.  A modification that impacts the tax 
consequences of this Award or the timing of delivery of RSU Shares will not be an amendment that 
materially adversely affects your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement.  Any amendment of 
this Award Agreement will be in writing.
20.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.    
- 10 -
21.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities; Protected Communications.  
In accordance with applicable law, nothing in this Award Agreement (including the forfeiture and 
repayment provisions in Paragraphs 9 and 10) or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from engaging in protected concerted activity pursuant to applicable law protecting such activity, 
including discussing wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of your employment; or speaking with 
your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations.  In addition, nothing in this Award 
Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting channels that are 
available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation.
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
- 12 -
[EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider certain factors to 
determine whether and what portion of your Award will terminate, including the reason for the Loss 
Event or Risk Event, as well as the extent to which you participated in the Loss Event or Risk Event and 
your compensation for ____ may or may not have been adjusted to take into account the risk associated 
with the Loss Event, Risk Event, your Serious Misconduct or the Serious Misconduct of a Supervised 
Employee.  Your compensation may be adjusted for the year in which the Loss Event, Risk Event, your 
Serious Misconduct or a Supervised Employee’s Serious Misconduct is discovered.
If you are an EU MRT, Paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) apply to all RSUs in your Award.  If you are a 
GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT, Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Appendix 
apply to all RSUs in your Award, but Paragraph (d) applies only to your Base RSUs and Additional 
RSUs, as applicable, but not any Supplemental RSUs.  Paragraph (e) of this Appendix contains certain 
definitions not otherwise contained in the Award Agreement.
(a)
A Loss Event Occurs Prior to Delivery.  If a Loss Event occurs prior to the delivery of 
RSU Shares, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs which are scheduled to deliver on the 
next Delivery Date immediately following the date that the Loss Event is identified (or, if not practicable, 
then the next following Delivery Date) will terminate, and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of 
such RSUs.  
(i)
“Loss Event” means (A) an annual pre-tax loss at GS Inc. or (B) annual negative 
revenues in one or more reporting segments as disclosed in the Firm’s Form 10-K other than the 
Asset & Wealth Management segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as 
determined by the Firm), or annual negative revenues in the Asset & Wealth Management 
segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by the Firm) of 
$5 billion or more, provided in either case that you are employed in a business within such 
reporting segment.
(b)
A Risk Event Occurs On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If a Risk Event occurs on 
or before the Applicable End Date, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs will 
terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a portion 
of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled and (iii) you will be 
obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the 
Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award 
(without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as 
of (A) the date the Risk Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Risk Event” means there occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital 
from a reportable operational risk event determined in accordance with the firmwide Reporting 
and Operational Risk Events Policy (or any successor policy).  
- 13 -
(c)
You Engage in Serious Misconduct On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If you 
engage in Serious Misconduct during the period beginning on the applicable Transferability Date through 
the Applicable End Date, you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an 
amount not in excess of the greater of the Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend 
payments) delivered in respect of the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax 
withholding or other obligations) determined as of (i) the date the Serious Misconduct occurred and (ii) 
the date that the repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Serious Misconduct” means that you engage in conduct that the Firm 
reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary 
termination of employment under applicable employment law.  
(d)
A Supervised Employee Engages in Serious Misconduct.  If the Committee determines 
that it is appropriate to hold you accountable in whole or in part for Serious Misconduct related to 
compliance, control or risk that occurred during ____ by a Supervised Employee, your rights in respect of 
all or a portion of your RSUs will terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs 
and your rights to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be 
cancelled. 
(i)
“Supervised Employee” means an individual with respect to whom the 
Committee determines you had supervisory responsibility as a result of direct or indirect 
reporting lines or your management responsibility for an office, division or business. 
(e)
Certain Definitions.  
(i)
“Applicable End Date” means [__________][, with respect to each 
classification in the table below, the following:
Classification
Applicable End Date
EU MRT
__________
GSAMI MRT
__________
GSAMI Senior Management
__________
UK MRT
__________]
(ii)
“EU MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a (A) Material Risk Taker in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of the 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive or Undertakings for Collective Investment in 
Transferable Securities V (“AIFMD-UCITS”), including “Identified Staff” under AIFMD-UCITS 
(“AIFMD-UCITS Identified Staff”), as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management, B.V. (“GSAMBV”), Goldman Sachs Asset Management Belgium, S.A. 
(“GSAM Belgium”) or Goldman Sachs Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych S.A. (“GS 
TFI”), including any branch of subsidiary thereof (collectively, “GSAM Europe”), whether or not 
GSAM Europe has employed such individual; or (B) an individual who, at any point in ____, was 
classified by the Firm with respect to Goldman Sachs Paris Inc. et Cie in accordance with the 
applicable remuneration rules of either the Capital Requirements Directive V or the Investment 
Firms Regulation/Investment Firms Directive, as a Material Risk Taker (“GSPIC MRT”) or 
Senior Management (“GSPIC Senior Management”).  EU MRT does not include AIFMD-UCITS 
Identified Staff of Goldman Sachs Asset Management Fund Services Ltd. (“GSAMFSL”).
(iii)
“GSAMI MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified 
by the Firm as a GSAMI Material Risk Taker in accordance with the remuneration code under the 
UK Investment Firms Prudential Regime (“IFPR”) as applicable to the business operations of 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Ltd. (“GSAMI”).  
- 14 -
(iv)
“GSAMI Senior Management” means an individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a GSAMI Senior Management in accordance with the remuneration 
code under the IFPR as applicable to the business operations of GSAMI.  
(v)
“UK MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a Material Risk Taker (including UK Risk Managers and UK PRA Senior Managers) in 
accordance with the remuneration codes applicable to dual-regulated UK firms.
(vi)
For purposes of these definitions, if during ____ you were classified by the Firm 
as any combination of EU MRT and GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT 
then your classification in the table above is EU MRT; any combination of GSAMI MRT or 
GSAMI Senior Management and UK MRT then your classification in the table above is UK 
MRT; or as a combination of GSAMI MRT and GSAMI Senior Management then your 
classification in the table above is GSAMI Senior Management.
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Appendix 
(including your refusal to remit payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with 
Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of 
such dispute, controversy or claim (including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 15 -
[GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider all relevant factors in 
making the decision, in its sole discretion as to whether an Adjustment Event or Actionable Misconduct 
have occurred.  
This Appendix applies to all RSUs in your Award if you are a GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management.
(a)
An Adjustment Event Occurs with Respect to ____.  If an Adjustment Event occurs with 
respect to ____, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs will terminate and no RSU 
Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk 
will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, and (iii) you will be obligated immediately upon 
demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the Fair Market Value of the 
RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award (without reduction for any 
amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as of (A) the date the 
Adjustment Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.
(i)
“Adjustment Event” means that one of the following has occurred:
A.
you significantly contributed to, or were responsible for, any conduct that 
resulted in a loss of 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc.;
B.
a material regulatory sanction for the Firm comprising one or more of the 
following: 
1.
a moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g of the German Banking Act, 
2.
a measure in case of danger pursuant to sec. 46 of the German 
Banking Act, 
3.
the revocation of appointment of a manager pursuant to sec. 36 
German Banking Act, 
4.
a fine pursuant to sec. 56 of the German Banking Act or a 
threatened penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment 
amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc., 
5.
the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 of the 
German Banking Act, 
6.
 an order to increase the capital requirements Goldman Sachs 
Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 
of the German Banking Act, 
- 16 -
7.
a measure in case of organizational deficiencies, 
8.
a comparable regulatory order, or
9.
a material supervisory measure; or
C.
you acted in serious violation of relevant external or internal rules with 
respect to suitability and conduct, provided that a violation is considered serious if it 
suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant to sec. 626 German 
Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct pursuant to sec. 1 German 
Termination Protection Act. 
(b)
You Engage in Actionable Misconduct.  If the Committee determines that you engaged in 
Actionable Misconduct, which if known (or if known, adequately considered) would have resulted in a 
reduction to your annual variable compensation when your variable compensation for that year was 
determined, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs will terminate and no RSU Shares will 
be delivered in respect of such RSUs.
(i)
“Actionable Misconduct” means either or both of:
A.
“Unethical behavior” within the meaning of the IVV;
B.
“Breach of duty” within the meaning of the IVV. 
(ii)
“IVV” means the German Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions 
(Institutsvergütungsverordnung) and applicable guidance from the German Federal Financial 
Supervisory Authority (BaFin) or the European Central Bank.
(c)
Scope of Appendix.  This Appendix applies to any individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a Material Risk Taker (“GSBE MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSBE 
Senior Management”) in connection with the business operations of GSBE or any branch or subsidiary 
thereof, whether or not GSBE or any branch or subsidiary thereof employed such individual.  
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by this Appendix (including your refusal to remit 
payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement 
and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of such dispute, controversy or claim 
(including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 17 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings:
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A.  
(b) “Acceptance Deadline” means the date communicated to you by the Firm as the deadline 
to accept your Award.  The Acceptance Deadline will be no less than 14 days after the Award 
Documentation is first made available to you in full.  To the extent you are entitled to a translation in 
accordance with the Language Notice for Equity Awards provided to you as part of the Award 
Documentation, the Acceptance Deadline will be extended by the time required to furnish you with any 
such translation.
(c) “Associate With a Covered Enterprise” means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or 
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Covered Enterprise or (ii) associate 
in any capacity (including association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or 
advisor) with any Covered Enterprise.  Associate With a Covered Enterprise may include, as determined 
in the discretion of the Committee, (i) becoming the subject of any publicly available announcement or 
report of a pending or future association with a Covered Enterprise and (ii) unpaid associations, including 
an association in contemplation of future employment.  “Association With a Covered Enterprise” will 
have its correlative meaning. 
(d) “Breached an Obligation to the Firm” means that you failed to meet, in any respect, any 
obligation under any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with your 
Employment or this Award (including any applicable Additional Terms); including, without limitation, 
any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders’ agreement relating to the Firm.  Your failure 
to pay or reimburse the Firm, on demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm will constitute (i) failure to 
meet an obligation you have under an agreement, regardless of whether such obligation arises under a 
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause.
(e) “Committee” means the Compensation Committee unless otherwise determined by the 
Board; provided, however, that: (i) the authority of the Compensation Committee to administer the Plan 
and the Award may be granted or delegated to the SIP Committee, in which case “Committee” means the 
SIP Committee when acting pursuant to such a grant or delegation; (ii) to the extent the Board determines 
it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) 
or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, “Committee” shall be a committee or 
subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a “non-employee 
director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3; and (iii) to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate 
for the compensation realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” 
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, “Committee” shall be a committee or subcommittee of 
the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning 
of Code Section 162(m).  
(f) “Compensation Committee” means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(g) “Conflicted Employment” means your employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local 
government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or international organization, any self-
regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any 
- 18 -
other employer (other than an “Accounting Firm” within the meaning of SEC Rule 2-01(f)(2) of 
Regulation S-X or any successor thereto) determined by the Committee, if, as a result of such 
employment, your continued holding of any Outstanding RSUs or Shares at Risk would result in an actual 
or perceived conflict of interest.
(h) “Covered Enterprise” means a Competitive Enterprise and any other existing or planned 
business enterprise that: (i) offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer 
products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by the Firm or that the Firm 
reasonably expects to offer (“Firm Products or Services”) or (ii) engages in, holds itself out as engaging in 
or reasonably may be expected to engage in any other activity that is the same as or similar to any 
financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to engage (“Firm 
Activities”).  For the avoidance of doubt, Firm Activities include any activity that requires the same or 
similar skills as any financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to 
engage, irrespective of whether any such financial activity is in furtherance of an advisory, agency, 
proprietary or fiduciary undertaking.
The enterprises covered by this definition include enterprises that offer, hold themselves out as 
offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services, or engage in, hold themselves 
out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities directly, as well as those 
that do so indirectly by ownership or control (e.g., by owning, being owned by or by being under common 
ownership with an enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to 
offer Firm Products or Services or that engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be 
expected to engage in Firm Activities).  The definition of Covered Enterprise includes, solely by way of 
example, any enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer any 
product or service, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage 
in any activity, in any case, associated with investment banking; public or private finance; lending; 
financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than you or your family members 
(including, for the avoidance of doubt, any type of proprietary investing or trading); private wealth 
management; private banking; consumer or commercial cash management; consumer, digital or 
commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge fund management; insurance or 
reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or securities, futures, commodities, energy, 
derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance, settlement or trading.  
An enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products 
or Services, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in 
Firm Activities is a Covered Enterprise, irrespective of whether the enterprise is a customer, client or 
counterparty of the Firm or is otherwise associated with the Firm and, because the Firm is a global 
enterprise, irrespective of where the Covered Enterprise is physically located.
(i) “Failed to Consider Risk” means that you participated (or otherwise oversaw or were 
responsible for, depending on the circumstances, another individual’s participation) in the structuring or 
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the 
purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the 
risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly 
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result 
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to 
be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system.  This 
definition is not limited to financial risks and is designed to encourage the consideration of the full range 
of risks associated with activities (e.g., legal, compliance or reputational).  This definition also does not 
- 19 -
require that a material adverse impact actually occur, but, rather, may be triggered if it is determined that 
there is a reasonable expectation of such an impact.
(j) “HCM” means the Firm’s Human Capital Management Division or its successor.
(k) “Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control” means that the Firm terminates your 
Employment other than for Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, in each case, 
within 18 months following a Change in Control.
(l) “SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(m) “Selected Firm Personnel” means any individual who is or in the three months preceding 
the conduct prohibited by Paragraph 9(a)(ii) was (i) a Firm employee or consultant with whom you 
personally worked while employed by the Firm, (ii) a Firm employee or consultant who, at any time 
during the year preceding the date of the termination of your Employment, worked in the same division in 
which you worked or (iii) an Advisory Director, a Managing Director (Participating or Extended) or a 
Senior Advisor of the Firm. 
(n) “Shares at Risk” means RSU Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions.
(o) “Signature Card” means the document and/or website presented to you with your Award 
that you are required to execute (including electronically) to indicate your acceptance of the Award, the 
Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and the terms contained in the Signature Card) and 
Additional Terms applicable to you, as well your receipt of the Award Documentation.
(p) “Transferability Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the 
month and year specified on your Award Statement as a transferability date; provided, however, that if 
there is no trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the specified month and year, the 
Transferability Date will be the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.  
- 20 -
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.  
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(c) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(d) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(e) “Cause” means (i) the Grantee’s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty 
or nolo contendere (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving 
fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, 
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge, or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses 
(A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations, (ii) the Grantee’s engaging in any 
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory 
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act), (iii) the Grantee’s willful failure to perform the 
Grantee’s duties to the Firm, (iv) the Grantee’s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules 
or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities 
exchange or association of which the Firm is a member, (v) the Grantee’s violation of any Firm policy 
concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or the Grantee’s material 
violation of any other Firm policy as in effect from time to time, (vi) the Grantee’s engaging in any act or 
making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the 
name, reputation or business interests of the Firm or (vii) the Grantee’s engaging in any conduct 
detrimental to the Firm.  The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the 
Committee in its sole discretion and, in such case, the Committee also may, but shall not be required to, 
specify the date such Cause occurred (including by determining that a prior termination of Employment 
was for Cause).  Any rights the Firm may have hereunder and in any Award Agreement in respect of the 
events giving rise to Cause shall be in addition to the rights the Firm may have under any other agreement 
with a Grantee or at law or in equity.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Change in Control” means the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share 
exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving GS Inc. (a “Reorganization”) or sale or other 
disposition of all or substantially all of GS Inc.’s assets to an entity that is not an affiliate of GS Inc. (a 
“Sale”), that in each case requires the approval of GS Inc.’s shareholders under the law of GS Inc.’s 
jurisdiction of organization, whether for such Reorganization or Sale (or the issuance of securities of GS 
Inc. in such Reorganization or Sale), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale, either:  
(i) at least 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the 
case of an entity other than a corporation) of (A) the entity resulting from such Reorganization, or the 
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc. in a Sale (in either case, the 
“Surviving Entity”), or (B) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has beneficial 
- 21 -
ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as such Rule is in effect on the 
date of the adoption of the 1999 SIP) of 50% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election 
of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity 
(the “Parent Entity”) is represented by GS Inc.’s securities (the “GS Inc. Securities”) that were 
outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares 
into which such GS Inc. Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale) or (ii) at least 
50% of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a 
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the 
consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the Board’s approval of the execution of 
the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, individuals (the “Incumbent Directors”) 
who either (A) were members of the Board on the Effective Date or (B) became directors subsequent to 
the Effective Date and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-
thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of GS Inc.’s 
proxy statement in which such persons are named as nominees for director).
(h) “Client” means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the Grantee provided 
services, or for whom the Grantee transacted business, or whose identity became known to the Grantee in 
connection with the Grantee’s relationship with or employment by the Firm.
(i) “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the 
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
(j) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(k) “Competitive Enterprise” means an existing or planned business enterprise that (i) 
engages, or may reasonably be expected to engage, in any activity; (ii) owns or controls, or may 
reasonably be expected to own or control, a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity 
or (iii) is, or may reasonably be expected to be, owned by, or a significant interest in which is, or may 
reasonably be expected to be, owned or controlled by, any entity that engages in any activity that, in any 
case, competes or will compete anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged.  The activities 
covered by this definition include, without limitation: financial services such as investment banking; 
public or private finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than the 
Grantee and members of the Grantee’s family (including for the avoidance of doubt, any type of 
proprietary investing or trading); private wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial 
cash management; consumer, digital or commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge 
fund management; insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or 
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, 
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.
(l) “Covered Person” means a member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of 
the Firm.
(m) “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
(n) [“Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award.] 
- 22 -
(o) “Effective Date” means the date this Plan is approved by the shareholders of GS Inc. 
pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Plan.
(p) “Employment” means the Grantee’s performance of services for the Firm, as determined 
by the Committee.  The terms “employ” and “employed” shall have their correlative meanings.  The 
Committee in its sole discretion may determine (i) whether and when a Grantee’s leave of absence results 
in a termination of Employment (for this purpose, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Grantee 
shall be treated as terminating Employment with the Firm upon the occurrence of an Extended Absence), 
(ii) whether and when a change in a Grantee’s association with the Firm results in a termination of 
Employment and (iii) the impact, if any, of any such leave of absence or change in association on Awards 
theretofore made.  Unless expressly provided otherwise, any references in the Plan or any Award 
Agreement to a Grantee’s Employment being terminated shall include both voluntary and involuntary 
terminations.  
(q) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(r) “Extended Absence” means the Grantee’s inability to perform for six (6) continuous 
months, due to illness, injury or pregnancy-related complications, substantially all the essential duties of 
the Grantee’s occupation, as determined by the Committee.
(s) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(t) “Good Reason” means, in connection with a termination of employment by a Grantee 
following a Change in Control, (i) as determined by the Committee, a materially adverse alteration in the 
Grantee’s position or in the nature or status of the Grantee’s responsibilities from those in effect 
immediately prior to the Change in Control or (ii) the Firm’s requiring the Grantee’s principal place of 
Employment to be located more than seventy-five (75) miles from the location where the Grantee is 
principally Employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required travel on the Firm’s 
business to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee’s customary business travel obligations in 
the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).
(u) “Grantee” means a person who receives an Award.
(v) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(w) “1999 SIP” means The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect prior to 
the effective date of the 2003 SIP.  
(x) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, cancelled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(y) “Restricted Share” means a share of Common Stock delivered under the Plan that is 
subject to Transfer Restrictions, forfeiture provisions and/or other terms and conditions specified herein 
and in the Restricted Share Award Agreement or other applicable Award Agreement.  All references to 
Restricted Shares include “Shares at Risk.”   
- 23 -
(z) “RSU” means a restricted stock unit granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.  
(aa)“RSU Shares” means shares of Common Stock that underlie an RSU.
(ab)“Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(ac)“SIP Administrator” means each person designated by the Committee as a “SIP 
Administrator” with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative functions for the Plan.
(ad)“SIP Committee” means the persons who have been delegated certain authority under the 
Plan by the Committee.  
(ae)“Solicit” means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless 
of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, suggesting, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in 
any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action.  The terms “Solicited,” “Soliciting” and 
“Solicitation” will have their correlative meanings.  
(af) “Transfer Restrictions” means restrictions that prohibit the sale, exchange, transfer, 
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposal (including through the use of 
any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by the Grantee, of an Award or any 
shares of Common Stock, cash or other property delivered in respect of an Award.
(ag)“Vested” means, with respect to an Award, the portion of the Award that is not subject to 
a condition that the Grantee remain actively employed by the Firm in order for the Award to remain 
Outstanding.  The fact that an Award becomes Vested shall not mean or otherwise indicate that the 
Grantee has an unconditional or nonforfeitable right to such Award, and such Award shall remain subject 
to such terms, conditions and forfeiture provisions as may be provided for in the Plan or in the Award 
Agreement. 
(ah)“Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 24 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
[One-Time][Year-End] RSU Award
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your __________ award of RSUs (your “Award”).  You should 
read carefully this entire document (including its [Appendix][Appendices]), the Award Statement 
and the Signature Card (together, the “Award Agreement”), as well as the other documentation 
presented to you in connection with acceptance of your Award (collectively, “Award 
Documentation”).
Acceptance
1.
You Must Decide Whether to Accept Your Award.  To be eligible for your Award, 
you must by the Acceptance Deadline: (a) open and activate an Account; (b) accept any Additional Terms 
presented to you as part of the Award Documentation; and (c) execute (including by electronic means) the 
accompanying Signature Card in accordance with its instructions.  By executing the Signature Card, you 
confirm your agreement to all of the terms of the Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and 
the Signature Card), as well as any Additional Terms. 
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
2.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  The Plan and its Prospectus are included with the Award 
Documentation.
3.
Your Award Statement.  The accompanying Award Statement contains the type and 
number of RSUs awarded to you and some of your Award’s specific terms.  For example, it specifies any 
applicable Vesting Dates, Delivery Dates and Transferability Dates.  Your Award consists of up to 
[two][three] types of RSUs that are designated in the Award Statement and referred to in this Award 
Agreement as:
Award Statement Designation
Award Agreement Reference
_____ Base RSUs
Base RSUs
_____ Supplemental RSUs
Supplemental RSUs
[_____ Additional Base RSUs]
[Additional RSUs]
4.
All references to RSUs in this Award Agreement include Outstanding RSUs of all types, whether 
Base RSUs[,][or] Supplemental RSUs [or Additional RSUs] (as applicable to you).  This Award 
Agreement does not govern the terms and conditions of any RSUs designated on your Award Statement 
as “Short-Term RSUs,” which (if applicable) are addressed in a separate Award Agreement.
5.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan.  
Vesting of Your RSUs
6.
Vesting.  On each Vesting Date listed on your Award Statement, you will become Vested 
in the amount of any Base RSUs [and Additional RSUs] listed next to that date.  All of your Supplemental 
RSUs, if any, are Vested.  When an RSU becomes Vested, it means only that your continued active 
Employment is not required for delivery of that portion of RSU Shares.  Vesting does not mean you 
have a non-forfeitable right to the Vested portion of your Award.  The terms of this Award 
Agreement (including conditions to delivery and any applicable Transfer Restrictions) continue to 
apply to Vested RSUs, and you can still forfeit Vested RSUs and any RSU Shares.
EXHIBIT 10.36
Delivery of Your RSU Shares
7.
Delivery.  Reasonably promptly (but no more than 30 Business Days) after each Delivery 
Date identified on your Award Statement, RSU Shares (less applicable withholding as described in 
Paragraph 13(b)) will be delivered (by book entry credit to your Account) in respect of the type and 
amount of Outstanding RSUs listed next to that date.  The Committee may select multiple dates within the 
30-Business-Day period following the Delivery Date to deliver RSU Shares in respect of all or a portion 
of the RSUs with the same Delivery Date listed on the Award Statement, and all such dates will be treated 
as a single Delivery Date for purposes of this Award.  Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a 
general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  Without limiting the Committee’s 
authority under Section 1.3.2(h) of the Plan, the Firm may accelerate any Delivery Date by up to 30 days. 
Transfer Restrictions Following Delivery
8.
Transfer Restrictions and Shares at Risk.  Within 30 Business Days after any 
applicable Transferability Date identified on your Award Statement, GS Inc. will remove the Transfer 
Restrictions on any Shares at Risk in respect of the type and amount of Outstanding RSUs listed next to 
that date.  If your Award Statement reflects a Transferability Date, [__% of the RSU Shares delivered on 
any Delivery Date before tax withholding (or, if the tax withholding rate is greater than 50%, all RSU 
Shares)][all of the RSU Shares delivered on any Delivery Date after tax withholding] will be Shares at 
Risk.  The Committee may select multiple dates within the 30-Business-Day period on which to remove 
Transfer Restrictions for all or a portion of the Shares at Risk with the same Transferability Date, and all 
such dates will be treated as a single Transferability Date for purposes of this Award.  Any purported sale, 
exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in 
violation of the Transfer Restrictions on Shares at Risk will be void.  [If your Award Statement does 
not reflect any Transferability Date [as applying to a type of Outstanding RSUs], then references to 
Transfer Restrictions and Shares at Risk in this Award Agreement are inapplicable to your 
[Award][RSU Shares delivered in respect of such RSUs] and this Paragraph 7 does not apply [to 
RSU Shares delivered in respect of such RSUs].
Dividends
9.
[Dividend Equivalent Rights and] Dividends.  [Each RSU includes a Dividend 
Equivalent Right, which entitles you to receive an amount (less applicable withholding), at or after the 
time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock, 
equal to any regular cash dividend payment that would have been made in respect of an RSU Share 
underlying your Outstanding RSUs for any record date that occurs on or after the Date of Grant.  In 
addition, you][You] will be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend paid in respect 
of any Shares at Risk.  [The RSUs do not include Dividend Equivalent Rights.]
Forfeiture of Your Award
10.
How You May Forfeit Your Award.  This Paragraph 9 sets forth the events that result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of 
up to all other amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with 
Paragraph 10.  More than one event may apply, and in no case will the occurrence of one event limit the 
forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event.  Paragraph 11 
(relating to certain circumstances under which you will not forfeit your unvested RSUs upon Employment 
termination) and Paragraph 12 (relating to certain circumstances under which vesting, delivery and/or 
release of Transfer Restrictions may be accelerated) provide for exceptions to one or more provisions of 
this Paragraph 9.  
(a)
Unvested RSUs Forfeited if Your Employment Terminates.  If your Employment 
terminates for any reason or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed with the Firm (which 
includes off-premises notice periods, “garden leaves,” pay in lieu of notice or any other similar status), 
your rights to your Outstanding Base RSUs [and Additional RSUs] that are not Vested will terminate, and 
no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs.
- 2 -
(b)
Vested and Unvested Base RSUs [and Additional RSUs] Forfeited Upon Certain Events.  
If any of the following occurs before the applicable Delivery Date, your rights to all of your Outstanding 
Base RSUs [and Additional RSUs] (whether or not Vested) will terminate, and no RSU Shares will be 
delivered in respect of such RSUs:
(i)
You Solicit Clients or Employees, Interfere with Client or Employee 
Relationships or Participate in the Hiring of Employees.  Except as prohibited by applicable law, 
either: 
A.
you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client 
to transact business with a Covered Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business 
with the Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any 
relationship between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the 
Firm to resign from the Firm, (4) Solicit any Selected Firm Personnel to apply for or accept 
employment (or other association) with any person or entity other than the Firm or (5) participate 
in the hiring of any Selected Firm Personnel by any person or entity other than the Firm 
(including, without limitation, participating in the identification of individuals for potential hire, 
and participating in any hiring decision), whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or 
B.
Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into 
partnership, membership or similar status by any entity where you have, or will have, direct or 
indirect managerial responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel, unless the Committee 
determines that you were not involved in such Solicitation, hiring or acceptance.
(ii)
[GS Inc. Fails to Maintain the Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio.  GS Inc. fails to 
maintain the required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” as defined under Federal Reserve Board 
Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive business days.]
(iii)
[GS Inc. Is Determined to Be in Default.  The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) makes a written 
recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act for the appointment of the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. 
based on a determination that GS Inc. is “in default” or “in danger of default.”]
(c)
Vested and Unvested RSUs and Shares at Risk Forfeited upon Certain Events.  If any of 
the following occurs (i) your rights to all of your Outstanding RSUs (whether or not Vested) will 
terminate, and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs and (ii) your rights to any Shares 
at Risk will terminate and all such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, in each case, as may be further 
described below:
(i)
You Failed to Consider Risk.  You Failed to Consider Risk during ____. 
(ii)
Your Conduct Constitutes Cause.  Any event that constitutes Cause has occurred 
before the applicable Delivery Date for RSUs or the applicable Transferability Date for any 
Shares at Risk.
(iii)
You Breach an Obligation to the Firm.  The Committee determines that, before 
the applicable Delivery Date for RSUs or the applicable Transferability Date for any Shares at 
Risk, you Breached an Obligation to the Firm.
(iv)
You Do Not Provide Timely Certifications or Comply with Your Certifications.  
You fail to certify to GS Inc. that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this 
Award Agreement as required by Paragraph 13(d), or the Committee determines that you have 
failed to comply with a term of the Plan or this Award Agreement to which you have certified 
compliance.
- 3 -
(v)
You Do Not Follow Dispute Resolution Procedures.  You attempt to have any 
dispute, controversy or claim under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any manner 
that is not provided for by Paragraph 16 or Section 3.17 of the Plan, or you attempt to arbitrate a 
dispute, controversy or claim without first having exhausted your internal administrative remedies 
in accordance with Paragraph 13(c). 
(vi)
You Bring an Action that Results in a Determination that Any Award Agreement 
Term Is Invalid.  As a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any term of this 
Award Agreement is invalid.
(vii)
You Receive Compensation in Respect of Your Award from Another Employer.  
Your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively Employed 
with the Firm and another entity grants you cash, equity or other property (whether vested or 
unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any Outstanding RSUs or Shares at 
Risk; provided, however, that your rights will only be terminated in respect of the RSUs and 
Shares at Risk that are replaced, substituted for or otherwise considered by such other entity in 
making its grant.
(d)
[Additional Forfeiture and Repayment Conditions for Material Risk Takers.  [If at any 
point in ____][Since] the Firm identified you as a Material Risk Taker (“MRT”) [in ____] then the EU 
and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix and/or the GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix (as 
applicable to you, the “MRT Appendix”) supplements this Paragraph 9.  The MRT Appendix sets forth 
additional events that (i) result in forfeiture of up to all of your RSUs and Shares at Risk and (ii) may 
require repayment to the Firm of up to all amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award 
in accordance with Paragraph 10.  Your MRT classification, as defined in the MRT Appendix, was 
communicated to you separately.  [If you are unsure of whether the Firm identified you as an MRT, or 
which classification(s) apply, you must contact HCM prior to accepting this Award.]  The Firm’s records 
with respect to such classification(s) will be controlling as to whether and which MRT Appendix applies 
to your Award.  The MRT classifications with their corresponding MRT Appendix are as follows:
MRT Classification
MRT Appendix
EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior 
Management and/or UK MRT
EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT and GSBE Senior Management
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management and 
any combination of EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, 
GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix and 
EU and UK Material Risk Taker 
Appendix]
(e)
Actions Pending Forfeiture.  In connection with any investigation as to whether any of 
the events that would result in forfeiture under the Plan [or][,] this Paragraph 9 [or the MRT Appendix] 
have occurred, the Firm reserves the right to (i) suspend vesting of Outstanding RSUs, [payments under 
Dividend Equivalent Rights,] delivery of RSU Shares or release of any Transfer Restrictions; (ii) deliver 
any RSU Shares[, payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] or dividends into an escrow account in 
accordance with Paragraph 13(e)(iii); or (iii) apply Transfer Restrictions to any RSU Shares.
Repayment of Your Award
11.
When You May Be Required to Repay Your Award.  If the Committee determines 
that any term of this Award was not satisfied, you will be required, immediately upon demand therefor, to 
repay to the Firm the following:  
(a)
Any RSU Shares (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes any Shares at Risk) for 
which the terms (including the terms for delivery) of the related RSUs were not satisfied, in accordance 
with Section 2.6.3 of the Plan.
- 4 -
(b)
Any Shares at Risk for which the terms (including the terms for the release of Transfer 
Restrictions) were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.5.3 of the Plan.
(c)
Any RSU Shares that were delivered (but not subject to Transfer Restrictions) at the same 
time any Shares at Risk that are cancelled or required to be repaid were delivered.
(d)
[Any payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights for which the terms were not satisfied 
(including any such payments made in respect of RSUs that are forfeited or RSU Shares that are cancelled 
or required to be repaid), in accordance with Section 2.8.3 of the Plan.]
(e)
Any dividends paid in respect of any RSU Shares that are cancelled or required to be 
repaid.
(f)
Any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations with respect to any 
RSUs, RSU Shares[,][and] dividend payments [and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] that are 
forfeited or required to be repaid.  
Exceptions to the Vesting, Delivery and/or Transferability Dates
12.
Circumstances Under Which You Will Not Forfeit Your Unvested RSUs on 
Employment Termination (but the Original Delivery Dates and Transferability Dates Continue to 
Apply).  If your Employment terminates at a time when you meet the requirements for [Retirement,] 
Extended Absence[,] [“downsizing”] [or] [Approved Termination], [each] as described below, then 
Paragraph 9(a) will not apply, and your Outstanding RSUs will be treated as described in this Paragraph 
11.  All other terms of this Award Agreement, including the other forfeiture and repayment events in 
Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT Appendix], continue to apply.
(a)
[Retirement or] Extended Absence and No Association With a Covered Enterprise.
(i)
Generally.  If your Employment terminates by [Retirement or] Extended 
Absence, your Outstanding RSUs that are not Vested will be treated as Vested.  However, your 
rights to any Outstanding RSU that are treated as Vested by this Paragraph 11(a)(i) will 
terminate and no RSU Share will be delivered in respect of that RSU if you Associate With 
a Covered Enterprise on or before the originally scheduled Vesting Date for that RSU.  You 
acknowledge and agree that if any portion of the preceding sentence is unenforceable under 
applicable law, or is found to be unenforceable, then the entirety of this Paragraph 11(a)(i) is 
inapplicable to you and your rights to any Outstanding RSUs that were treated as Vested, or 
otherwise would have been treated as Vested, will be cancelled in accordance with Paragraph 
9(a).
(ii)
Special Treatment for Involuntary or Mutual Agreement Termination.  The 
second sentence of Paragraph 11(a)(i) (relating to forfeiture if you Associate With a Covered 
Enterprise) will not apply if (A) the Firm characterizes your Employment termination as 
“involuntary” or by “mutual agreement” (and, in each case, you have not engaged in conduct 
constituting Cause) and (B) you execute a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement 
to pay any associated tax liability, in each case, in the form the Firm prescribes.  No Employment 
termination that you initiate, including any purported “constructive termination,” a “termination 
for good reason” or similar concepts, can be “involuntary” or by “mutual agreement.”
(b)
[Downsizing.  If (i) the Firm terminates your Employment solely by reason of a 
“downsizing” (and you have not engaged in conduct constituting Cause) and (ii) you execute a general 
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, in each case, in the 
form the Firm prescribes, your Outstanding RSUs that are not yet Vested will become Vested.  Whether 
or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a “downsizing” will be determined by the Firm 
in its sole discretion.]
- 5 -
(c)
[Approved Terminations of Fixed-Term Employees.  If the Firm classifies you as a 
“fixed-term” employee and your Employment terminates solely by reason of an Approved Termination 
(and you have not engaged in conduct constituting Cause), your Outstanding RSUs that are not yet Vested 
will become Vested.]  
13.
Accelerated Vesting, Delivery and/or Release of Transfer Restrictions in the Event 
of [a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] Death.  In 
the event of your [Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] 
death, [each] as described below, then Paragraph 9(a) will not apply, your Outstanding RSUs and any 
Shares at Risk will be treated as described in this Paragraph 12, and, except as set forth in Paragraph 
12(a), all other terms of this Award Agreement, including the other forfeiture and repayment events in 
Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT Appendix], continue to apply.
(a)
[You Have a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control.  If your Employment 
terminates when you meet the requirements of a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control, the 
RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding RSUs (whether or not Vested) will be delivered, and any 
Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply.  In addition, the forfeiture events in Paragraph 9 [(except the 
MRT Appendix)] will not apply to your Award.]
(b)
[You Are Determined to Have Accepted Conflicted Employment.
(i)
Generally.  To the extent consistent with applicable law, regulation and 
regulatory guidance, the following will apply as soon as practicable after the Committee has 
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.
A.
Vesting.  If your Employment terminates solely because you 
resign to accept Conflicted Employment and, according to the Firm’s records, you have 
completed at least three years of continuous service with the Firm as of the date your 
Employment terminates, your Outstanding RSUs will Vest; otherwise, you will forfeit any 
Outstanding RSUs that are not Vested in accordance with Paragraph 9(a). 
B.
Delivery and Release of Transfer Restrictions.  If your 
Employment terminates solely because you resign to accept Conflicted Employment or if, 
following your termination of Employment, you notify the Firm that you are accepting Conflicted 
Employment, RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of your Outstanding Vested RSUs 
(including in the form of cash as described in Paragraph 13(e)(ii)) and any Transfer Restrictions 
will cease to apply.
(ii)
You May Have to Take Other Steps to Address Conflicts of Interest.  The 
Committee retains the authority to exercise its rights under the Award Agreement or the Plan 
(including Section 1.3.2 of the Plan) to take or require you to take other steps it determines in its 
sole discretion to be necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest 
(which may include a determination that the accelerated vesting, delivery and/or release of 
Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 12(b)(i) will not apply because such actions are not 
necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest).]
(c)
Death.  If you die, the RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding RSUs (whether or not 
Vested) will be delivered to your Account and any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply as soon as 
practicable after the date of death and receipt of any documentation as may be requested by the 
Committee or a SIP Administrator.
Other Terms and Conditions of Your Award
14.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Consents.
- 6 -
(a)
You Will Be Required to Accept Additional Terms.  In addition to the terms of the 
Award Agreement, the Award Documentation includes other contractual terms that you must accept as a 
condition of the Award (the “Additional Terms”).  By accepting the Award and executing the Signature 
Card, you agree to any such Additional Terms applicable to you as set forth in the Award Documentation, 
which will include but are not limited to the following:  
(i)
Notice Period Policy.  You must agree to abide by the terms, as applicable to 
you, of the Policy on Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based Awards and Other 
Deferred Compensation (the “Notice Period Policy”).
(ii)
Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters.  You must 
agree to the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which imposes 
obligations in addition to those contained in Paragraph 16.
(iii)
APAC Restrictive Covenants.  If you are employed by the Firm in the Asia-
Pacific Region (e.g., Australia, the People’s Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, 
Taiwan), you must agree to the APAC Restrictive Covenants Agreement.
(iv)
Role-, Business- or Division-Specific Agreements.  If applicable to you, you 
must accept Additional Terms related to your specific role, business unit or division as set forth in 
the Award Documentation.
(b)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Delivery of RSU Shares is 
conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the 
Plan, which includes the Firm deducting or withholding amounts from any payment or distribution to you.  
In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to 
provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, state, local, foreign or other tax obligations 
imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant, Vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring 
you to choose between remitting the amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) 
in the form of proceeds from the Firm’s executing a sale of RSU Shares delivered to you under this 
Award.  In no event, however, does this Paragraph 13(b) give you any discretion to determine or affect 
the timing of the delivery of RSU Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.  
(c)
You Must Comply with Applicable Deadlines and Procedures to Appeal.  If you disagree 
with a determination made by the Committee, the SIP Administrators or any of their delegates or 
designees relating to the Plan or the Award Agreement and you wish to appeal such determination, you 
must submit a written request to the Committee for review within 180 days after the determination at 
issue.  You must exhaust your internal administrative remedies (i.e., submit your appeal and wait for 
resolution of that appeal) before seeking to resolve a dispute, controversy or claim through arbitration 
pursuant to Paragraph 16 and Section 3.17 of the Plan.
(d)
You May Be Required to Certify Compliance with Award Terms; You Are Responsible 
for Providing Updated Address and Contact Information After Your Departure from the Firm.  If your 
Employment terminates while you continue to hold RSUs or Shares at Risk, the Firm may require you to 
provide certifications of your compliance with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  
You understand and agree that (i) your contact information as reflected in the Firm’s personnel records at 
the time any certification is requested will be deemed current; (ii) it is your responsibility to inform HCM 
of any changes to your contact information to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, 
regardless of whether your contact information is provided to another part of the Firm; and (iii) you are 
responsible for contacting the Firm to obtain such certification materials if not received.  Your failure to 
return properly completed certification materials by the specified deadline (including because you did not 
provide HCM with updated contact information) will result in the forfeiture of all of your RSUs and any 
Shares at Risk and subject previously delivered amounts to repayment under Paragraph 9(c)(iv). 
(e)
You Agree to Other Terms, Conditions and Consents.  By accepting this Award you 
understand and agree that:
- 7 -
(i)
Amounts May Be Rounded to Avoid Fractional RSU Shares.  RSUs that become 
Vested, RSU Shares that become deliverable and RSU Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions 
may, in each case, be rounded to avoid fractional RSU Shares.
(ii)
Firm May Deliver Cash or Other Property Instead of RSU Shares.  In accordance 
with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the sole discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any 
portion of the RSU Shares, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under the 
Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of RSU Shares 
will include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other 
property.
(iii)
Firm May Deliver Your Award into an Escrow Account.  The Firm may establish 
and maintain an escrow account on such terms (which may include your executing any 
documents related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such account) as it may 
deem necessary or appropriate, and the delivery of RSU Shares (including any Shares at Risk), 
and any payment of cash (including dividends [and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights]) 
or other property, may initially be made into and held in that escrow account until such time as 
the Committee has received such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee 
has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares, cash or other 
property required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied.
(iv)
Firm May Affix Legends and Place Stop Orders on RSU Shares.  GS Inc. may 
affix to Certificates representing RSU Shares any legend that the Committee determines to be 
necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under 
the Additional Terms, a separate agreement or any Firm policy applicable to you).  GS Inc. may 
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended RSU Shares.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, RSU Shares as used herein includes, without limitation, Restricted Shares.
(v)
You Authorize the Firm to Register, in Its or Its Designee’s Name, Any 
Restricted Shares and Sell, Assign or Transfer Any Forfeited Restricted Shares.  You are granting 
to the Firm the full power and authority to register any Restricted Shares in its or its designee’s 
name and authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell, assign or transfer any Restricted Shares if 
you forfeit your Restricted Shares. 
(vi)
You Agree to Certain Consents as a Condition to the Award.  You have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying 
to any third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as 
the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional 
consents that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
(vii)
You Are Subject to the Firm’s Policies, Rules and Procedures.  You are subject 
to the Firm’s policies in effect from time to time concerning trading in RSU Shares and hedging 
or pledging RSU Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards (including, without 
limitation, the “Firmwide Policy with Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities 
and GS Equity Awards” or any successor policies), and confidential or proprietary information, 
and you will effect sales of RSU Shares in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be 
adopted from time to time (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the 
timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or 
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm).
(viii)
You Are Responsible for Costs Associated with Your Award.  You will be 
responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with your RSUs, 
including those related to the sale of RSU Shares.
- 8 -
(ix)
You Will Be Deemed to Represent Your Compliance with All the Terms of Your 
Award if You Accept Delivery of, or Sell, RSU Shares.  You will be deemed to have represented 
and certified that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement 
when RSU Shares are delivered to you[, you receive payment in respect of Dividend Equivalent 
Rights] and you request the sale of RSU Shares following the release of any Transfer 
Restrictions.
(x)
You Agree that Covered Persons Will Not Have Liability.  In addition to and 
without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor 
any Covered Person will have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or 
omitted in respect of this or any other Award.
15.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the 
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported sale, exchange, 
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition (including 
through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntary or involuntary, in violation of the 
provisions of this Paragraph 14 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  
16.
Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 18(h), the obligation to deliver RSU 
Shares, to pay dividends [or payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights] or to remove any Transfer 
Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the 
Firm’s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any 
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement. 
Arbitration, Choice of Forum and Governing Law
17.
Arbitration; Choice of Forum.
(a)
By accepting this award, you are indicating that you understand and agree that the 
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Section 3.17 of the Plan will apply to this 
Award to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.  These provisions, which are expressly 
incorporated herein by reference, provide among other things that any dispute, controversy or 
claim between the Firm and you arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or this Award 
Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration, pursuant to the terms more fully set forth in 
Section 3.17 of the Plan; provided that nothing herein shall preclude you from filing a charge with 
or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by any governmental authority, 
including but not limited to the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and a state 
or local human rights agency, as well as law enforcement.
(b)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement includes an agreement to arbitrate claims 
on a collective, class or representative basis.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider class, collective or representative claims, to order 
consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief other than on an individual basis to the 
individual claimant involved.
(c)
Notwithstanding any applicable forum rules to the contrary, to the extent there is a 
question of enforceability of the Plan or this Award Agreement arising from a challenge to the arbitrator’s 
jurisdiction or to the arbitrability of a claim, it will be decided by a court and not an arbitrator.
(d)
Prior to filing any arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16(a), you must first exhaust 
your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c), which includes awaiting the 
Committee’s final determination of any such appeal.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider any dispute, controversy or claim as to which you have not 
first exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c).
(e)
The Federal Arbitration Act governs interpretation and enforcement of all arbitration 
provisions under the Plan and this Award Agreement, and all arbitration proceedings thereunder.
- 9 -
(f)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement creates a substantive right to bring a claim 
under U.S. Federal, state, or local employment laws.
(g)
By accepting your Award, you irrevocably appoint each General Counsel of GS Inc., or 
any person whom the General Counsel of GS Inc. designates, as your agent for service of process in 
connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any 
Award which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.17.1 of the Plan, who shall promptly 
advise you of any such service of process.
(h)
As a condition of your Award, you also must accept the terms of the Agreement 
Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which is included among the Additional 
Terms described in Paragraph 13(a) and sets forth obligations independent of this Paragraph 16.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the obligation to exhaust your internal remedies described in 
Paragraph 13(c) and Paragraph 16(d) only applies to disputes, controversies or claims relating to 
the Plan or the Award Agreement.
18.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
19.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 18 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are intended and 
will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements applicable to, or the 
conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), whether by reason of short-
term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The Committee will have full authority to give 
effect to this intent.  To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or 
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and 
this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any 
conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 18 and the other provisions of this Award 
Agreement, this Paragraph 18 will govern.
(b)
Delivery of RSU Shares will not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable 
conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares required by this Award Agreement (including those 
specified in Paragraphs 6, 7, 11(a)(ii), 11(b), 12(c) and 13 and the consents and other items specified in 
Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied.  To the extent that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy 
the requirements for short-term deferral treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion will 
occur by the March 15 coinciding with the last day of the applicable “short-term deferral” period 
described in Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for the delivery of RSU Shares to be within the short-term 
deferral exception unless, in order to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be 
satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted 
in accordance with Section 409A, to delay delivery of RSU Shares to a later date within the same 
calendar year or to such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 1.409A-3(d).  
For the avoidance of doubt, if the Award includes a “series of installment payments” as described in Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), your right to the series of installment payments will be treated as a right to a series of 
separate payments and not as a right to a single payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 13(e) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the 
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that the 
Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs will not have the effect of deferring delivery or payment, 
income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such delivery, payment or 
inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to the RSU Shares that would 
otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to 
Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section 409A, including and to the 
extent applicable, the subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)).
- 10 -
(d)
Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 12(c), the delivery of RSU Shares 
referred to therein will be made after the date of death and not later than the end of the calendar year 
following the calendar year that includes the date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted 
under Section 409A).
(e)
The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 12(a) will occur on the earlier 
of (i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of 
Employment occurs; provided, however, that if you are a “specified employee” (as defined by the Firm in 
accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery will occur on the earlier of the Delivery 
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the date that 
is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during a Window Period, 
the first trading day of the next Window Period).  For purposes of Paragraph 12(a), references in this 
Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination of Employment from the Firm (as 
defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with 
Section 409A).
(f)
[Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the 
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs will be paid to 
you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular cash 
dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock the record date for which occurs on or 
after the Date of Grant.  The payment will be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such 
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the RSU Shares underlying such 
Outstanding RSUs.]
(g)
The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 12(b)(i) will be the earlier of 
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee receives 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or 
payment will be made, and any Committee action referred to in Paragraph 12(b)(ii) will be taken, only at 
such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the 
imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.  
(h)
Paragraph 15 and Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A 
Deferred Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
(i)
Delivery of RSU Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent 
elected by the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, 
in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred Compensation, only to the extent that the later 
delivery is permitted under Section 409A).  
(j)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any taxes 
and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to designate, directly or 
indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.
Committee Authority, Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting 
20.
Committee Authority.  The Committee has the authority to determine, in its sole 
discretion, that any event triggering forfeiture or repayment of your Award will not apply, to limit the 
forfeitures and repayments that result under Paragraphs 9 and 10 and to remove any Transfer Restrictions 
before the applicable Transferability Date.  In addition, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may 
determine whether Paragraphs 11(a)(ii) and 11(b) will apply upon a termination of Employment and 
whether a termination of Employment constitutes an Approved Termination under Paragraph 11(c).  
21.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement and the 
- 11 -
Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan.  A modification that impacts the tax 
consequences of this Award or the timing of delivery of RSU Shares will not be an amendment that 
materially adversely affects your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement.  Any amendment of 
this Award Agreement will be in writing.
22.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.
23.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities; Protected Communications.  
In accordance with applicable law, nothing in this Award Agreement (including the forfeiture and 
repayment provisions in Paragraphs 9 and 10) or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from engaging in protected concerted activity pursuant to applicable law protecting such activity, 
including discussing wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of your employment; or speaking with 
your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations.  In addition, nothing in this Award 
Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting channels that are 
available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation.
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
- 13 -
[EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider certain factors to 
determine whether and what portion of your Award will terminate, including the reason for the Loss 
Event or Risk Event, as well as the extent to which you participated in the Loss Event or Risk Event and 
your compensation for the ____ may or may not have been adjusted to take into account the risk 
associated with the Loss Event, Risk Event, your Serious Misconduct or the Serious Misconduct of a 
Supervised Employee.  Your compensation may be adjusted for the year in which the Loss Event, Risk 
Event, your Serious Misconduct or a Supervised Employee’s Serious Misconduct is discovered.
If you are an EU MRT, Paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) apply to all RSUs in your Award.  If you are a 
GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT, Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Appendix 
apply to all RSUs in your Award, but Paragraph (d) applies only to your Base RSUs [and Additional 
RSUs, as applicable], but not any Supplemental RSUs.  Paragraph (e) of this Appendix contains certain 
definitions not otherwise contained in the Award Agreement.
(a)
A Loss Event Occurs Prior to Delivery.  If a Loss Event occurs prior to the delivery of 
RSU Shares, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) which are 
scheduled to deliver on the next Delivery Date immediately following the date that the Loss Event is 
identified (or, if not practicable, then the next following Delivery Date) will terminate, and no RSU 
Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs.  
(i)
“Loss Event” means (A) an annual pre-tax loss at GS Inc. or (B) annual negative 
revenues in one or more reporting segments as disclosed in the Firm’s Form 10-K other than the 
Asset & Wealth Management segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as 
determined by the Firm), or annual negative revenues in the Asset & Wealth Management 
segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by the Firm) of 
$5 billion or more, provided in either case that you are employed in a business within such 
reporting segment.
(b)
A Risk Event Occurs On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If a Risk Event occurs on 
or before the Applicable End Date, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or 
not Vested) will terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights 
to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled and (iii) 
you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the 
greater of the Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of 
the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) 
determined as of (A) the date the Risk Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is 
made.  
(i)
“Risk Event” means there occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital 
from a reportable operational risk event determined in accordance with the firmwide Reporting 
and Operational Risk Events Policy (or any successor policy).  
- 14 -
(c)
You Engage in Serious Misconduct On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If you 
engage in Serious Misconduct during the period beginning on the applicable Transferability Date through 
the Applicable End Date, you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an 
amount not in excess of the greater of the Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend 
payments) delivered in respect of the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax 
withholding or other obligations) determined as of (i) the date the Serious Misconduct occurred and (ii) 
the date that the repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Serious Misconduct” means that you engage in conduct that the Firm 
reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary 
termination of employment under applicable employment law.  
(d)
A Supervised Employee Engages in Serious Misconduct.  If the Committee determines 
that it is appropriate to hold you accountable in whole or in part for Serious Misconduct related to 
compliance, control or risk that occurred during ____ by a Supervised Employee, your rights in respect of 
all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered 
in respect of such RSUs and your rights to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such 
Shares at Risk will be cancelled. 
(i)
“Supervised Employee” means an individual with respect to whom the 
Committee determines you had supervisory responsibility as a result of direct or indirect 
reporting lines or your management responsibility for an office, division or business. 
(e)
Certain Definitions.  
(i)
“Applicable End Date” means [__________][, with respect to each 
classification in the table below, the following:
Classification
Applicable End Date
EU MRT
_______
GSAMI MRT
_______
GSAMI Senior Management
_______
UK MRT
_______]
(ii)
“EU MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a (A) Material Risk Taker in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of the 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive or Undertakings for Collective Investment in 
Transferable Securities V (“AIFMD-UCITS”), including “Identified Staff” under AIFMD-UCITS 
(“AIFMD-UCITS Identified Staff”), as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management, B.V. (“GSAMBV”), Goldman Sachs Asset Management Belgium, S.A. 
(“GSAM Belgium”) or Goldman Sachs Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych S.A. (“GS 
TFI”), including any branch of subsidiary thereof (collectively, “GSAM Europe”), whether or not 
GSAM Europe has employed such individual; or (B) an individual who, at any point in ____, was 
classified by the Firm with respect to Goldman Sachs Paris Inc. et Cie in accordance with the 
applicable remuneration rules of either the Capital Requirements Directive V or the Investment 
Firms Regulation/Investment Firms Directive, as a Material Risk Taker (“GSPIC MRT”) or 
Senior Management (“GSPIC Senior Management”).  EU MRT does not include AIFMD-UCITS 
Identified Staff of Goldman Sachs Asset Management Fund Services Ltd. (“GSAMFSL”).
(iii)
“GSAMI MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified 
by the Firm as a GSAMI Material Risk Taker in accordance with the remuneration code under the 
UK Investment Firms Prudential Regime (“IFPR”) as applicable to the business operations of 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Ltd. (“GSAMI”).  
- 15 -
(iv)
“GSAMI Senior Management” means an individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a GSAMI Senior Management in accordance with the remuneration 
code under the IFPR as applicable to the business operations of GSAMI.  
(v)
“UK MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a Material Risk Taker (including UK Risk Managers and UK PRA Senior Managers) in 
accordance with the remuneration codes applicable to dual-regulated UK firms.
(vi)
For purposes of these definitions, if during ____ you were classified by the Firm 
as any combination of EU MRT and GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT 
then your classification in the table above is EU MRT; any combination of GSAMI MRT or 
GSAMI Senior Management and UK MRT then your classification in the table above is UK 
MRT; or as a combination of GSAMI MRT and GSAMI Senior Management then your 
classification in the table above is GSAMI Senior Management.
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Appendix 
(including your refusal to remit payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with 
Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of 
such dispute, controversy or claim (including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 16 -
[GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider all relevant factors in 
making the decision, in its sole discretion as to whether an Adjustment Event or Actionable Misconduct 
have occurred.  
This Appendix applies to all RSUs in your Award if you are a GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management.
(a)
An Adjustment Event Occurs with Respect to ____.  If an Adjustment Event occurs with 
respect to ____, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will 
terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a portion 
of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, and (iii) you will be 
obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the 
Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award 
(without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as 
of (A) the date the Adjustment Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.
(i)
“Adjustment Event” means that one of the following has occurred:
A.
you significantly contributed to, or were responsible for, any conduct that 
resulted in a loss of 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc.;
B.
 a material regulatory sanction for the Firm comprising one or more of 
the following: 
1.
a moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g of the German Banking Act, 
2.
a measure in case of danger pursuant to sec. 46 of the German 
Banking Act, 
3.
the revocation of appointment of a manager pursuant to sec. 36 
German Banking Act, 
4.
a fine pursuant to sec. 56 of the German Banking Act or a 
threatened penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment 
amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc., 
5.
the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 of the 
German Banking Act, 
6.
 an order to increase the capital requirements Goldman Sachs 
Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 
of the German Banking Act, 
- 17 -
7.
a measure in case of organizational deficiencies, 
8.
a comparable regulatory order, or
9.
a material supervisory measure; or
C.
you acted in serious violation of relevant external or internal rules with 
respect to suitability and conduct, provided that a violation is considered serious if it 
suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant to sec. 626 German 
Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct pursuant to sec. 1 German 
Termination Protection Act. 
(b)
You Engage in Actionable Misconduct.  If the Committee determines that you engaged in 
Actionable Misconduct, which if known (or if known, adequately considered) would have resulted in a 
reduction to your annual variable compensation when your variable compensation for that year was 
determined, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate 
and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs.
(i)
“Actionable Misconduct” means either or both of:
A.
“Unethical behavior” within the meaning of the IVV;
B.
“Breach of duty” within the meaning of the IVV. 
(ii)
“IVV” means the German Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions 
(Institutsvergütungsverordnung) and applicable guidance from the German Federal Financial 
Supervisory Authority (BaFin) or the European Central Bank.
(c)
Scope of Appendix.  This Appendix applies to any individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a Material Risk Taker (“GSBE MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSBE 
Senior Management”) in connection with the business operations of GSBE or any branch or subsidiary 
thereof, whether or not GSBE or any branch or subsidiary thereof employed such individual.  
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by this Appendix (including your refusal to remit 
payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement 
and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of such dispute, controversy or claim 
(including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 18 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings:
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A. 
(b) “Acceptance Deadline” means the date communicated to you by the Firm as the deadline 
to accept your Award.  The Acceptance Deadline will be no less than 14 days after the Award 
Documentation is first made available to you in full.  To the extent you are entitled to a translation in 
accordance with the Language Notice for Equity Awards provided to you as part of the Award 
Documentation, the Acceptance Deadline will be extended by the time required to furnish you with any 
such translation.
(c) “Approved Termination” means that you are classified by the Firm as a “fixed-term 
employee” and you (i) successfully complete the fixed-term engagement, as determined by the Firm in its 
sole discretion, including remaining Employed through the completion date specified by the Firm, and (ii) 
terminate Employment immediately after the completion date without any “stay-on” or other agreement 
or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm.  If you agree to stay with the Firm as an 
employee after your fixed-term engagement ends and then later terminate Employment, you will not have 
an Approved Termination.
(d) “Associate With a Covered Enterprise” means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or 
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Covered Enterprise or (ii) associate 
in any capacity (including association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or 
advisor) with any Covered Enterprise.  Associate With a Covered Enterprise may include, as determined 
in the discretion of the Committee, (i) becoming the subject of any publicly available announcement or 
report of a pending or future association with a Covered Enterprise and (ii) unpaid associations, including 
an association in contemplation of future employment.  “Association With a Covered Enterprise” will 
have its correlative meaning.
(e) “Breached an Obligation to the Firm” means that you failed to meet, in any respect, any 
obligation under any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with your 
Employment or this Award (including any applicable Additional Terms); including, without limitation, 
any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders’ agreement relating to the Firm.  Your failure 
to pay or reimburse the Firm, on demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm will constitute (i) failure to 
meet an obligation you have under an agreement, regardless of whether such obligation arises under a 
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause. 
(f) “Committee” means the Compensation Committee unless otherwise determined by the 
Board; provided, however, that: (i) the authority of the Compensation Committee to administer the Plan 
and the Award may be granted or delegated to the SIP Committee, in which case “Committee” means the 
SIP Committee when acting pursuant to such a grant or delegation; (ii) to the extent the Board determines 
it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) 
or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, “Committee” shall be a committee or 
subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a “non-employee 
director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3; and (iii) to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate 
for the compensation realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” 
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, “Committee” shall be a committee or subcommittee of 
- 19 -
the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning 
of Code Section 162(m).  
(g) “Compensation Committee” means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(h) “Conflicted Employment” means your employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local 
government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or international organization, any self-
regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any 
other employer (other than an “Accounting Firm” within the meaning of SEC Rule 2-01(f)(2) of 
Regulation S-X or any successor thereto) determined by the Committee, if, as a result of such 
employment, your continued holding of any Outstanding RSUs or Shares at Risk would result in an actual 
or perceived conflict of interest. 
(i) “Covered Enterprise” means a Competitive Enterprise and any other existing or planned 
business enterprise that:  (i) offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer 
products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by the Firm or that the Firm 
reasonably expects to offer (“Firm Products or Services”) or (ii) engages in, holds itself out as engaging in 
or reasonably may be expected to engage in any other activity that is the same as or similar to any 
financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to engage (“Firm 
Activities”).  For the avoidance of doubt, Firm Activities include any activity that requires the same or 
similar skills as any financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to 
engage, irrespective of whether any such financial activity is in furtherance of an advisory, agency, 
proprietary or fiduciary undertaking.
The enterprises covered by this definition include enterprises that offer, hold themselves out 
as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services, or engage in, hold 
themselves out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities directly, as 
well as those that do so indirectly by ownership or control (e.g., by owning, being owned by or by being 
under common ownership with an enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be 
expected to offer Firm Products or Services or that engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or 
reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities).  The definition of Covered Enterprise includes, 
solely by way of example, any enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be 
expected to offer any product or service, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may 
be expected to engage in any activity, in any case, associated with investment banking; public or private 
finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than you or your family 
members (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any type of proprietary investing or trading); private 
wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial cash management; consumer, digital or 
commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge fund management; insurance or 
reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or securities, futures, commodities, energy, 
derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance, settlement or trading.  
An enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products 
or Services, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in 
Firm Activities is a Covered Enterprise, irrespective of whether the enterprise is a customer, client or 
counterparty of the Firm or is otherwise associated with the Firm and, because the Firm is a global 
enterprise, irrespective of where the Covered Enterprise is physically located.  
(j) “Delivery Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the month 
and year specified on your Award Statement as a delivery date, so long as any such date occurs before the 
29th day of the month specified on the Award Statement; if there is no such date, the Delivery Date will 
- 20 -
be the earlier of another date selected by the Committee in the month and year specified on the Award 
Statement or the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.
(k) “Failed to Consider Risk” means that you participated (or otherwise oversaw or were 
responsible for, depending on the circumstances, another individual’s participation) in the structuring or 
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the 
purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the 
risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly 
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result 
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to 
be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system.  This 
definition is not limited to financial risks and is designed to encourage the consideration of the full range 
of risks associated with activities (e.g., legal, compliance or reputational).  This definition also does not 
require that a material adverse impact actually occur, but, rather, may be triggered if it is determined that 
there is a reasonable expectation of such an impact.
(l) “HCM” means the Firm’s Human Capital Management Division or its successor. 
(m) “Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control” means that the Firm terminates your 
Employment other than for Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, in each case, 
within 18 months following a Change in Control.
(n) “SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(o) “Selected Firm Personnel” means any individual who is or in the three months preceding 
the conduct prohibited by Paragraph 9(b)(i) was (i) a Firm employee or consultant with whom you 
personally worked while employed by the Firm, (ii) a Firm employee or consultant who, at any time 
during the year preceding the date of the termination of your Employment, worked in the same division in 
which you worked or (iii) an Advisory Director, a Managing Director (Participating or Extended) or a 
Senior Advisor of the Firm.
(p) “Shares at Risk” means RSU Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions. 
(q) “Signature Card” means the document and/or website presented to you with your Award 
that you are required to execute (including electronically) to indicate your acceptance of the Award, the 
Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and the terms contained in the Signature Card) and 
Additional Terms applicable to you, as well your receipt of the Award Documentation.
(r) “Transferability Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the 
month and year specified on your Award Statement as a transferability date; provided, however, that if 
there is no trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the specified month and year, the 
Transferability Date will be the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.  
- 21 -
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.   
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(c) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(d) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(e) “Cause” means (i) the Grantee’s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty 
or nolo contendere (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving 
fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, 
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge, or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses 
(A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations, (ii) the Grantee’s engaging in any 
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory 
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act), (iii) the Grantee’s willful failure to perform the 
Grantee’s duties to the Firm, (iv) the Grantee’s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules 
or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities 
exchange or association of which the Firm is a member, (v) the Grantee’s violation of any Firm policy 
concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or the Grantee’s material 
violation of any other Firm policy as in effect from time to time, (vi) the Grantee’s engaging in any act or 
making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the 
name, reputation or business interests of the Firm or (vii) the Grantee’s engaging in any conduct 
detrimental to the Firm.  The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the 
Committee in its sole discretion and, in such case, the Committee also may, but shall not be required to, 
specify the date such Cause occurred (including by determining that a prior termination of Employment 
was for Cause).  Any rights the Firm may have hereunder and in any Award Agreement in respect of the 
events giving rise to Cause shall be in addition to the rights the Firm may have under any other agreement 
with a Grantee or at law or in equity.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Change in Control” means the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share 
exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving GS Inc. (a “Reorganization”) or sale or other 
disposition of all or substantially all of GS Inc.’s assets to an entity that is not an affiliate of GS Inc. (a 
“Sale”), that in each case requires the approval of GS Inc.’s shareholders under the law of GS Inc.’s 
jurisdiction of organization, whether for such Reorganization or Sale (or the issuance of securities of GS 
Inc. in such Reorganization or Sale), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale, either:  
(i) at least 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the 
case of an entity other than a corporation) of (A) the entity resulting from such Reorganization, or the 
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc. in a Sale (in either case, the 
“Surviving Entity”), or (B) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has beneficial 
- 22 -
ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as such Rule is in effect on the 
date of the adoption of the 1999 SIP) of 50% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election 
of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity 
(the “Parent Entity”) is represented by GS Inc.’s securities (the “GS Inc. Securities”) that were 
outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares 
into which such GS Inc. Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale) or (ii) at least 
50% of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a 
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the 
consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the Board’s approval of the execution of 
the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, individuals (the “Incumbent Directors”) 
who either (A) were members of the Board on the Effective Date or (B) became directors subsequent to 
the Effective Date and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-
thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of GS Inc.’s 
proxy statement in which such persons are named as nominees for director).
(h) “Client” means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the Grantee provided 
services, or for whom the Grantee transacted business, or whose identity became known to the Grantee in 
connection with the Grantee’s relationship with or employment by the Firm.
(i) “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the 
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
(j) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(k) “Competitive Enterprise” means an existing or planned business enterprise that (i) 
engages, or may reasonably be expected to engage, in any activity; (ii) owns or controls, or may 
reasonably be expected to own or control, a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity 
or (iii) is, or may reasonably be expected to be, owned by, or a significant interest in which is, or may 
reasonably be expected to be, owned or controlled by, any entity that engages in any activity that, in any 
case, competes or will compete anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged.  The activities 
covered by this definition include, without limitation: financial services such as investment banking; 
public or private finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than the 
Grantee and members of the Grantee’s family (including for the avoidance of doubt, any type of 
proprietary investing or trading); private wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial 
cash management; consumer, digital or commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge 
fund management; insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or 
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, 
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.
(l) “Covered Person” means a member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of 
the Firm.  
(m) “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
(n) [“Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award.]
- 23 -
(o) “Effective Date” means the date this Plan is approved by the shareholders of GS Inc. 
pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Plan.
(p) “Employment” means the Grantee’s performance of services for the Firm, as determined 
by the Committee.  The terms “employ” and “employed” shall have their correlative meanings.  The 
Committee in its sole discretion may determine (i) whether and when a Grantee’s leave of absence results 
in a termination of Employment (for this purpose, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Grantee 
shall be treated as terminating Employment with the Firm upon the occurrence of an Extended Absence), 
(ii) whether and when a change in a Grantee’s association with the Firm results in a termination of 
Employment and (iii) the impact, if any, of any such leave of absence or change in association on Awards 
theretofore made.  Unless expressly provided otherwise, any references in the Plan or any Award 
Agreement to a Grantee’s Employment being terminated shall include both voluntary and involuntary 
terminations.  
(q) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(r) “Extended Absence” means the Grantee’s inability to perform for six (6) continuous 
months, due to illness, injury or pregnancy-related complications, substantially all the essential duties of 
the Grantee’s occupation, as determined by the Committee.
(s) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(t) “Good Reason” means, in connection with a termination of employment by a Grantee 
following a Change in Control, (i) as determined by the Committee, a materially adverse alteration in the 
Grantee’s position or in the nature or status of the Grantee’s responsibilities from those in effect 
immediately prior to the Change in Control or (ii) the Firm’s requiring the Grantee’s principal place of 
Employment to be located more than seventy-five (75) miles from the location where the Grantee is 
principally Employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required travel on the Firm’s 
business to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee’s customary business travel obligations in 
the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).
(u) “Grantee” means a person who receives an Award.
(v) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(w) “1999 SIP” means The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect prior to 
the effective date of the 2003 SIP.
(x) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, cancelled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(y) “Restricted Share” means a share of Common Stock delivered under the Plan that is 
subject to Transfer Restrictions, forfeiture provisions and/or other terms and conditions specified herein 
and in the Restricted Share Award Agreement or other applicable Award Agreement.  All references to 
Restricted Shares include “Shares at Risk.” 
(z) “Retirement” means termination of the Grantee’s Employment (other than for Cause) on 
or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of the Grantee’s age plus years of service with 
- 24 -
the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) the Grantee 
has completed at least 10 years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole 
discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) the Grantee has attained age 50 and (B) the Grantee has completed at 
least five years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). 
(aa)“RSU” means a restricted stock unit granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.  
(ab)“RSU Shares” means shares of Common Stock that underlie an RSU.
(ac)“Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(ad)“SIP Administrator” means each person designated by the Committee as a “SIP 
Administrator” with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative functions for the Plan.
(ae)“SIP Committee” means the persons who have been delegated certain authority under the 
Plan by the Committee.  
(af) “Solicit” means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless 
of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, suggesting, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in 
any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action.  The terms “Solicited,” “Soliciting” and 
“Solicitation” will have their correlative meanings.  
(ag)“Transfer Restrictions” means restrictions that prohibit the sale, exchange, transfer, 
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposal (including through the use of 
any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by the Grantee, of an Award or any 
shares of Common Stock, cash or other property delivered in respect of an Award.
(ah)“Vested” means, with respect to an Award, the portion of the Award that is not subject to 
a condition that the Grantee remain actively employed by the Firm in order for the Award to remain 
Outstanding.  The fact that an Award becomes Vested shall not mean or otherwise indicate that the 
Grantee has an unconditional or nonforfeitable right to such Award, and such Award shall remain subject 
to such terms, conditions and forfeiture provisions as may be provided for in the Plan or in the Award 
Agreement. 
(ai) “Vesting Date” means each date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as a date 
on which part or all of an Award becomes Vested.
(aj) “Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 25 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
[One-Time][Year-End] Short-Term RSU Award
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your __________ award of Short-Term RSUs (your “Award”).  
You should read carefully this entire document (including its [Appendix][Appendices]), the Award 
Statement and the Signature Card (together, the “Award Agreement”), as well as the other 
documentation presented to you in connection with acceptance of your Award (collectively, “Award 
Documentation”).
Acceptance
1.
You Must Decide Whether to Accept Your Award.  To be eligible for your Award, 
you must by the Acceptance Deadline: (a) open and activate an Account; (b) accept any Additional Terms 
presented to you as part of the Award Documentation; and (c) execute (including by electronic means) the 
accompanying Signature Card in accordance with its instructions.  By executing the Signature Card, you 
confirm your agreement to all of the terms of the Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and 
the Signature Card), as well as any Additional Terms. 
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
2.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  The Plan and its Prospectus are included with the Award 
Documentation. 
3.
Your Award Statement.  The accompanying Award Statement contains the number of 
Short-Term RSUs awarded to you and some of your Award’s specific terms.  For example, it specifies the 
Delivery Date.
4.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan.  
Vesting of Your RSUs
5.
Vesting.  All of your Short-Term RSUs are Vested.  When an RSU is Vested, it means 
only that your continued active Employment is not required for delivery of that portion of RSU Shares.  
Vesting does not mean you have a non-forfeitable right to the Vested portion of your Award.  The 
terms of this Award Agreement (including conditions to delivery) continue to apply to Vested 
Short-Term RSUs, and you can still forfeit Vested Short-Term RSUs and any RSU Shares.
Delivery of Your RSU Shares
6.
Delivery.  Reasonably promptly (but no more than 30 Business Days) after each Delivery 
Date identified on your Award Statement, RSU Shares (less applicable withholding as described in 
Paragraph 11(b)) will be delivered (by book entry credit to your Account) in respect of the amount of 
Outstanding Short-Term RSUs listed next to that date.  The Committee may select multiple dates within 
the 30-Business-Day period following the Delivery Date to deliver RSU Shares in respect of all or a 
portion of the Short-Term RSUs with the same Delivery Date listed on the Award Statement, and all such 
dates will be treated as a single Delivery Date for purposes of this Award.  Until such delivery, you have 
only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  Without limiting 
the Committee’s authority under Section 1.3.2(h) of the Plan, the Firm may accelerate any Delivery Date 
by up to 30 days. 
EXHIBIT 10.37
Dividends
7.
Dividend Equivalent Rights and Dividends.  Each Short-Term RSU includes a 
Dividend Equivalent Right, which entitles you to receive an amount (less applicable withholding), at or 
after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of 
Common Stock, equal to any regular cash dividend payment that would have been made in respect of an 
RSU Share underlying your Outstanding Short-Term RSUs for any record date that occurs on or after the 
Date of Grant.  
Forfeiture of Your Award
8.
How You May Forfeit Your Award.  This Paragraph 8 sets forth the events that result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your Short-Term RSUs and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all 
other amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 9.  
More than one event may apply, and in no case will the occurrence of one event limit the forfeiture and 
repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event.  Paragraph 10 (relating to certain 
circumstances under which delivery may be accelerated) provides for exceptions to one or more 
provisions of this Paragraph 8.  
(a)
Short-Term RSUs Forfeited Upon Certain Events.  If any of the following occurs, your 
rights to all of your Outstanding Short-Term RSUs will terminate, and no RSU Shares will be delivered in 
respect of such Short-Term RSUs, as may be further described below:  
(i)
You Failed to Consider Risk.  You Failed to Consider Risk during ____. 
(ii)
Your Conduct Constitutes Cause.  Any event that constitutes Cause has occurred 
before the Delivery Date.
(iii)
You Breach an Obligation to the Firm.  The Committee determines that, before 
the Delivery Date, you Breached an Obligation to the Firm.
(iv)
You Do Not Provide Timely Certifications or Comply with Your Certifications.  
You fail to certify to GS Inc. that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this 
Award Agreement as required by Paragraph 11(d), or the Committee determines that you have 
failed to comply with a term of the Plan or this Award Agreement to which you have certified 
compliance.
(v)
You Do Not Follow Dispute Resolution Procedures.  You attempt to have any 
dispute, controversy or claim under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any manner 
that is not provided for by Paragraph 14 or Section 3.17 of the Plan, or you attempt to arbitrate a 
dispute, controversy or claim without first having exhausted your internal administrative remedies 
in accordance with Paragraph 11(c). 
(vi)
You Bring an Action that Results in a Determination that Any Award Agreement 
Term Is Invalid.  As a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any term of this 
Award Agreement is invalid.
(vii)
You Receive Compensation in Respect of Your Award from Another Employer.  
Your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively Employed 
with the Firm and another entity grants you cash, equity or other property (whether vested or 
unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any Outstanding Short-Term RSUs; 
provided, however, that your rights will only be terminated in respect of the Short-Term RSUs 
that are replaced, substituted for or otherwise considered by such other entity in making its grant.
(b)
[Additional Forfeiture and Repayment Conditions for Material Risk Takers.  [If at any 
point in ____][Since] the Firm identified you as a Material Risk Taker (“MRT”) [in ____] then the EU 
and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix and/or the GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix (as 
- 2 -
applicable to you, the “MRT Appendix”) supplements this Paragraph 8.  The MRT Appendix sets forth 
additional events that (i) result in forfeiture of up to all of your Short-Term RSUs and (ii) may require 
repayment to the Firm of up to all amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in 
accordance with Paragraph 9.  Your MRT classification, as defined in the MRT Appendix, was 
communicated to you separately.  [If you are unsure of whether the Firm identified you as an MRT, or 
which classification(s) apply, you must contact HCM prior to accepting this Award.]  The Firm’s records 
with respect to such classification(s) will be controlling as to whether and which MRT Appendix applies 
to your Award.  The MRT classifications with their corresponding MRT Appendix are as follows:
MRT Classification
MRT Appendix
EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior 
Management and/or UK MRT
EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT and GSBE Senior Management
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management and 
any combination of EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, 
GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix and 
EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix]
(c)
Actions Pending Forfeiture.  In connection with any investigation as to whether any of 
the events that would result in forfeiture under the Plan [or][,] this Paragraph 8 [or the MRT Appendix] 
have occurred, the Firm reserves the right to (i) suspend payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights or 
delivery of RSU Shares; (ii) deliver any RSU Shares, payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights or 
dividends into an escrow account in accordance with Paragraph 11(e)(iii); or (iii) apply Transfer 
Restrictions to any RSU Shares.
Repayment of Your Award
9.
When You May Be Required to Repay Your Award.  If the Committee determines 
that any term of this Award was not satisfied, you will be required, immediately upon demand therefor, to 
repay to the Firm the following:  
(a)
Any RSU Shares for which the terms (including the terms for delivery) of the related 
Short-Term RSUs were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.6.3 of the Plan.
(b)
Any payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights for which the terms were not satisfied 
(including any such payments made in respect of Short-Term RSUs that are forfeited or RSU Shares that 
are cancelled or required to be repaid), in accordance with Section 2.8.3 of the Plan.
(c)
Any dividends paid in respect of any RSU Shares that are cancelled or required to be 
repaid.
(d)
Any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations with respect to any 
Short-Term RSUs, RSU Shares, dividend payments and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights that 
are forfeited or required to be repaid.  
Exceptions to the Delivery Date
10.
Accelerated Delivery in the Event of [a Qualifying Termination After a Change in 
Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] Death.  In the event of your [Qualifying Termination After a 
Change in Control][,] [Conflicted Employment] [or] death, [each] as described below, your Outstanding 
Short-Term RSUs will be treated as described in this Paragraph 10, and[, except as set forth in Paragraph 
10(a),] all other terms of this Award Agreement, including the other forfeiture and repayment events in 
Paragraphs 8 and 9 [and the MRT Appendix], continue to apply.
(a)
[You Have a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control.  If your Employment 
terminates when you meet the requirements of a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control, the 
- 3 -
RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding Short-Term RSUs will be delivered.  In addition, the forfeiture 
events in Paragraph 8 [(except the MRT Appendix)] will not apply to your Award.]
(b)
[You Are Determined to Have Accepted Conflicted Employment.
(i)
Generally.  To the extent consistent with applicable law, regulation and 
regulatory guidance, if your Employment terminates solely because you resign to accept 
Conflicted Employment or if, following your termination of Employment, you notify the Firm 
that you are accepting Conflicted Employment, RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of your 
Outstanding Short-Term RSUs (including in the form of cash as described in Paragraph 11(e)(ii)) 
as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to 
your Conflicted Employment. 
(ii)
You May Have to Take Other Steps to Address Conflicts of Interest.  The 
Committee retains the authority to exercise its rights under the Award Agreement or the Plan 
(including Section 1.3.2 of the Plan) to take or require you to take other steps it determines in its 
sole discretion to be necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived conflict of interest 
(which may include a determination that the accelerated delivery described in Paragraph 10(b)(i) 
will not apply because such actions are not necessary or appropriate to cure an actual or perceived 
conflict of interest).]
(c)
Death.  If you die, the RSU Shares underlying your Outstanding Short-Term RSUs will 
be delivered to your Account as soon as practicable after the date of death and receipt of any 
documentation as may be requested by the Committee or a SIP Administrator.
Other Terms And Conditions of Your Award
11.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Consents.
(a)
You Will Be Required to Accept Additional Terms.  In addition to the terms of the 
Award Agreement, the Award Documentation includes other contractual terms that you must accept as a 
condition of the Award (the “Additional Terms”).  By accepting the Award and executing the Signature 
Card, you agree to any such Additional Terms applicable to you as set forth in the Award Documentation, 
which will include but are not limited to the following.  
(i)
Notice Period Policy.  You must agree to abide by the terms, as applicable to 
you, of the Policy on Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based Awards and Other 
Deferred Compensation (the “Notice Period Policy”).
(ii)
Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters.  You must 
agree to the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which imposes 
obligations in addition to those contained in Paragraph 14.
(iii)
APAC Restrictive Covenants.  If you are employed by the Firm in the Asia-
Pacific Region (e.g., Australia, the People’s Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, 
Taiwan), you must agree to the APAC Restrictive Covenants Agreement.
(iv)
Role-, Business- or Division-Specific Agreements.  If applicable to you, you 
must accept Additional Terms related to your specific role, business unit or division as set forth in 
the Award Documentation.
(b)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Delivery of RSU Shares is 
conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the 
Plan, which includes the Firm deducting or withholding amounts from any payment or distribution to you.  
In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to 
provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, state, local, foreign or other tax obligations 
- 4 -
imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant or delivery of this Award by requiring you to 
choose between remitting the amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the 
form of proceeds from the Firm’s executing a sale of RSU Shares delivered to you under this Award.  In 
no event, however, does this Paragraph 11(b) give you any discretion to determine or affect the timing of 
the delivery of RSU Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.  
(c)
You Must Comply with Applicable Deadlines and Procedures to Appeal.  If you disagree 
with a determination made by the Committee, the SIP Administrators or any of their delegates or 
designees relating to the Plan or the Award Agreement and you wish to appeal such determination, you 
must submit a written request to the Committee for review within 180 days after the determination at 
issue.  You must exhaust your internal administrative remedies (i.e., submit your appeal and wait for 
resolution of that appeal) before seeking to resolve a dispute, controversy or claim through arbitration 
pursuant to Paragraph 14 and Section 3.17 of the Plan.
(d)
You May Be Required to Certify Compliance with Award Terms; You Are Responsible 
for Providing Updated Address and Contact Information After Your Departure from the Firm.  If your 
Employment terminates while you continue to hold Short-Term RSUs, the Firm may require you to 
provide certifications of your compliance with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  
You understand and agree that (i) your contact information as reflected in the Firm’s personnel records at 
the time any certification is requested will be deemed current; (ii) it is your responsibility to inform HCM 
of any changes to your contact information to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, 
regardless of whether your contact information is provided to another part of the Firm; and (iii) you are 
responsible for contacting the Firm to obtain such certification materials if not received.  Your failure to 
return properly completed certification materials by the specified deadline (including because you did not 
provide HCM with updated contact information) will result in the forfeiture of all of your Short-Term 
RSUs and subject previously delivered amounts to repayment under Paragraph 8(a)(iv). 
(e)
You Agree to Other Terms, Conditions and Consents.  By accepting this Award you 
understand and agree that:
(i)
Amounts May Be Rounded to Avoid Fractional RSU Shares.  RSU Shares that 
become deliverable may be rounded to avoid fractional RSU Shares.
(ii)
Firm May Deliver Cash or Other Property Instead of RSU Shares.  In accordance 
with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the sole discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any 
portion of the RSU Shares, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under the 
Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of RSU Shares 
will include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other 
property.
(iii)
Firm May Deliver Your Award into an Escrow Account.  The Firm may establish 
and maintain an escrow account on such terms (which may include your executing any 
documents related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such account) as it may 
deem necessary or appropriate, and the delivery of RSU Shares, and any payment of cash 
(including dividends and payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights) or other property, may 
initially be made into and held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has 
received such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that 
any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares, cash or other property required by 
this Award Agreement have been satisfied.
(iv)
Firm May Affix Legends and Place Stop Orders on RSU Shares.  GS Inc. may 
affix to Certificates representing RSU Shares any legend that the Committee determines to be 
necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under 
the Additional Terms, a separate agreement or any Firm policy applicable to you).  GS Inc. may 
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended RSU Shares.
(v)
You Agree to Certain Consents as a Condition to the Award.  You have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying 
- 5 -
to any third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as 
the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional 
consents that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
(vi)
You Are Subject to the Firm’s Policies, Rules and Procedures.  You are subject 
to the Firm’s policies in effect from time to time concerning trading in RSU Shares and hedging 
or pledging RSU Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards (including, without 
limitation, the “Firmwide Policy with Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities 
and GS Equity Awards” or any successor policies), and confidential or proprietary information, 
and you will effect sales of RSU Shares in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be 
adopted from time to time (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the 
timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or 
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm).
(vii)
You Are Responsible for Costs Associated with Your Award.  You will be 
responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with your Short-Term 
RSUs, including those related to the sale of RSU Shares.
(viii)
You Will Be Deemed to Represent Your Compliance with All the Terms of Your 
Award if You Accept Delivery of, or Sell, RSU Shares.  You will be deemed to have represented 
and certified that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement 
when RSU Shares are delivered to you and you receive payment in respect of Dividend 
Equivalent Rights.
(ix)
You Agree that Covered Persons Will Not Have Liability.  In addition to and 
without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor 
any Covered Person will have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or 
omitted in respect of this or any other Award.
12.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the 
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported sale, exchange, 
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition (including 
through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntary or involuntary, in violation of the 
provisions of this Paragraph 12 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  
13.
Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 16(h), the obligation to deliver RSU 
Shares or to pay dividends or payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights under this Award Agreement is 
subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the Firm’s right to offset against such obligation any 
outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to 
any tax equalization policy or agreement. 
Arbitration, Choice of Forum and Governing Law
14.
Arbitration; Choice of Forum.
(a)
By accepting this award, you are indicating that you understand and agree that the 
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Section 3.17 of the Plan will apply to this 
Award to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.  These provisions, which are expressly 
incorporated herein by reference, provide among other things that any dispute, controversy or 
claim between the Firm and you arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or this Award 
Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration, pursuant to the terms more fully set forth in 
Section 3.17 of the Plan; provided that nothing herein shall preclude you from filing a charge with 
or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by any governmental authority, 
including but not limited to the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and a state 
or local human rights agency, as well as law enforcement.
- 6 -
(b)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement includes an agreement to arbitrate claims 
on a collective, class or representative basis. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider class, collective or representative claims, to order 
consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief other than on an individual basis to the 
individual claimant involved.
(c)
Notwithstanding any applicable forum rules to the contrary, to the extent there is a 
question of enforceability of the Plan or this Award Agreement arising from a challenge to the arbitrator’s 
jurisdiction or to the arbitrability of a claim, it will be decided by a court and not an arbitrator.
(d)
Prior to filing any arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 14(a), you must first exhaust 
your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 11(c), which includes awaiting the 
Committee’s final determination of any such appeal.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider any dispute, controversy or claim as to which you have not 
first exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 11(c).
(e)
The Federal Arbitration Act governs interpretation and enforcement of all arbitration 
provisions under the Plan and this Award Agreement, and all arbitration proceedings thereunder.
(f)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement creates a substantive right to bring a claim 
under U.S. Federal, state, or local employment laws.
(g)
By accepting your Award, you irrevocably appoint each General Counsel of GS Inc., or 
any person whom the General Counsel of GS Inc. designates, as your agent for service of process in 
connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any 
Award which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.17.1 of the Plan, who shall promptly 
advise you of any such service of process.
(h)
As a condition of your Award, you also must accept the terms of the Agreement 
Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which is included among the Additional 
Terms described in Paragraph 11(a) and sets forth obligations independent of this Paragraph 14.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the obligation to exhaust your internal remedies described in 
Paragraph 11(c) and Paragraph 14(d) only applies to disputes, controversies or claims relating to 
the Plan or the Award Agreement.
15.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
16.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 16 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are intended and 
will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements applicable to, or the 
conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), whether by reason of short-
term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The Committee will have full authority to give 
effect to this intent.  To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or 
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and 
this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any 
conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 16 and the other provisions of this Award 
Agreement, this Paragraph 16 will govern.
(b)
Delivery of RSU Shares will not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable 
conditions or restrictions on delivery of RSU Shares required by this Award Agreement (including those 
specified in Paragraphs 6, 10(c) and 11 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the 
Plan) are satisfied.  To the extent that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for 
- 7 -
short-term deferral treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion will occur by the March 15 
coinciding with the last day of the applicable “short-term deferral” period described in Reg. 
1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for the delivery of RSU Shares to be within the short-term deferral exception 
unless, in order to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be satisfied, the 
Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance 
with Section 409A, to delay delivery of RSU Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to 
such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 1.409A-3(d).  For the avoidance 
of doubt, if the Award includes a “series of installment payments” as described in Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), your right to the series of installment payments will be treated as a right to a series of 
separate payments and not as a right to a single payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 11(e) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the 
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that the 
Firm may deliver in respect of your Short-Term RSUs will not have the effect of deferring delivery or 
payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such delivery, 
payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to the RSU Shares 
that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose 
pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section 409A, including 
and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and 
Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).
(d)
Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 10(c), the delivery of RSU Shares 
referred to therein will be made after the date of death and not later than the end of the calendar year 
following the calendar year that includes the date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted 
under Section 409A).
(e)
The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 10(a) will occur on the earlier 
of (i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of 
Employment occurs; provided, however, that if you are a “specified employee” (as defined by the Firm in 
accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery will occur on the earlier of the Delivery 
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the date that 
is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during a Window Period, 
the first trading day of the next Window Period).  For purposes of Paragraph 10(a), references in this 
Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination of Employment from the Firm (as 
defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with 
Section 409A).
(f)
Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 7 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the 
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Short-Term RSUs will 
be paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular 
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a share of Common Stock the record date for which occurs 
on or after the Date of Grant.  The payment will be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to 
such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the RSU Shares underlying such 
Outstanding Short-Term RSUs.
(g)
The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 10(b)(i) will be the earlier of 
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee receives 
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or 
payment will be made, and any Committee action referred to in Paragraph 10(b)(ii) will be taken, only at 
such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the 
imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.  
(h)
Paragraph 13 and Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A 
Deferred Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
(i)
Delivery of RSU Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent 
elected by the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, 
- 8 -
in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred Compensation, only to the extent that the later 
delivery is permitted under Section 409A).  
(j)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any taxes 
and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to designate, directly or 
indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.
Committee Authority, Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting
17.
Committee Authority.  The Committee has the authority to determine, in its sole 
discretion, that any event triggering forfeiture or repayment of your Award will not apply and to limit the 
forfeitures and repayments that result under Paragraphs 8 and 9.  
18.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement and the 
Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan.  A modification that impacts the tax 
consequences of this Award or the timing of delivery of RSU Shares will not be an amendment that 
materially adversely affects your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement.  Any amendment of 
this Award Agreement will be in writing.
19.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.
20.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities; Protected Communications.  
In accordance with applicable law, nothing in this Award Agreement (including the forfeiture and 
repayment provisions in Paragraphs 8 and 9) or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from engaging in protected concerted activity pursuant to applicable law protecting such activity, 
including discussing wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of your employment; or speaking with 
your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations. In addition, nothing in this Award 
Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting channels that are 
available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation. 
- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
- 10 -
[EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 8 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your Short-Term RSUs and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other amounts 
previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 9.  As with the 
events described in Paragraph 8, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 8(c).  
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider certain factors to 
determine whether and what portion of your Award will terminate, including the reason for the Risk 
Event, as well as the extent to which you participated in the Risk Event and your compensation for ____ 
may or may not have been adjusted to take into account the risk associated with the Risk Event or your 
Serious Misconduct. Your compensation may be adjusted for the year in which the Risk Event or your 
Serious Misconduct is discovered.
(a)
A Risk Event Occurs On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If a Risk Event occurs on 
or before the Applicable End Date, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your Short-Term RSUs 
will terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such Short-Term RSUs and (ii) you will 
be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of 
the Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments and payments under Dividend 
Equivalent Rights) delivered in respect of the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy 
tax withholding or other obligations) determined as of (A) the date the Risk Event occurred and (B) the 
date that the repayment request is made. 
(i)
“Risk Event” means there occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital 
from a reportable operational risk event determined in accordance with the firmwide Reporting 
and Operational Risk Events Policy (or any successor policy).  
(b)
You Engage in Serious Misconduct On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If you 
engage in Serious Misconduct during the period beginning on the Delivery Date through the Applicable 
End Date, you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in 
excess of the greater of the Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments and 
payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights) delivered in respect of the Award (without reduction for any 
amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as of (i) the date the Serious 
Misconduct occurred and (ii) the date that the repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Serious Misconduct” means that you engage in conduct that the Firm 
reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary 
termination of employment under applicable employment law.  
(c)
Certain Definitions.  
(i)
“Applicable End Date” means[__________][, with respect to each classification 
in the table below, the following:
Classification
Applicable End Date
EU MRT
__________
GSAMI MRT
__________
GSAMI Senior Management
__________
UK MRT
__________]
- 11 -
(ii)
“EU MRT” means an individual who, at any point in [____], was classified by 
the Firm as a (A) Material Risk Taker in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of the 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive or Undertakings for Collective Investment in 
Transferable Securities V (“AIFMD-UCITS”), including “Identified Staff” under AIFMD-UCITS 
(“AIFMD-UCITS Identified Staff”), as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management, B.V. (“GSAMBV”), Goldman Sachs Asset Management Belgium, S.A. 
(“GSAM Belgium”) or Goldman Sachs Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych S.A. (“GS 
TFI”), including any branch of subsidiary thereof (collectively, “GSAM Europe”), whether or not 
GSAM Europe has employed such individual; or (B) an individual who, at any point in [____], 
was classified by the Firm with respect to Goldman Sachs Paris Inc. et Cie in accordance with the 
applicable remuneration rules of either the Capital Requirements Directive V or the Investment 
Firms Regulation/Investment Firms Directive, as a Material Risk Taker (“GSPIC MRT”) or 
Senior Management (“GSPIC Senior Management”).  EU MRT does not include AIFMD-UCITS 
Identified Staff of Goldman Sachs Asset Management Fund Services Ltd. (“GSAMFSL”).
(iii)
“GSAMI MRT” means an individual who, at any point in [____], was classified 
by the Firm as a GSAMI Material Risk Taker in accordance with the remuneration code under the 
UK Investment Firms Prudential Regime (“IFPR”) as applicable to the business operations of 
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Ltd. (“GSAMI”).  
(iv)
“GSAMI Senior Management” means an individual who, at any point in 
[____], was classified by the Firm as a GSAMI Senior Management in accordance with the 
remuneration code under the IFPR, as applicable to the business operations of GSAMI.  
(v)
“UK MRT” means an individual who, at any point in [____], was classified by 
the Firm as a Material Risk Taker (including UK Risk Managers and UK PRA Senior Managers) 
in accordance with the remuneration codes applicable to dual-regulated UK firms.
(vi)
For purposes of these definitions, if during [____] you were classified by the 
Firm as any combination of EU MRT and GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK 
MRT then your classification in the table above is EU MRT; any combination of GSAMI MRT or 
GSAMI Senior Management and UK MRT then your classification in the table above is UK 
MRT; or as a combination of GSAMI MRT and GSAMI Senior Management then your 
classification in the table above is GSAMI Senior Management.
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Appendix 
(including your refusal to remit payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with 
Paragraph 14 of this Award Agreement and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of 
such dispute, controversy or claim (including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 12 -
[GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 8 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your Short-Term RSUs and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other amounts 
previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 9.  As with the 
events described in Paragraph 8, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 8(c).  
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider all relevant factors in 
making the decision, in its sole discretion as to whether an Adjustment Event or Actionable Misconduct 
have occurred.  
This Appendix applies to all Short-Term RSUs in your Award if you are a GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior 
Management. 
(a)
An Adjustment Event Occurs with Respect to ____.  If an Adjustment Event occurs with 
respect to ____, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your Short-Term RSUs will terminate and 
no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such Short-Term RSUs, and (ii) you will be obligated 
immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the Fair 
Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award (without 
reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as of (A) the 
date the Adjustment Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.
(i)
“Adjustment Event” means that one of the following has occurred:
A.
you significantly contributed to, or were responsible for, any conduct that 
resulted in a loss of 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc.;
B.
a material regulatory sanction for the Firm comprising one or more of the 
following: 
1.
a moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g of the German Banking Act, 
2.
a measure in case of danger pursuant to sec. 46 of the German 
Banking Act, 
3.
the revocation of appointment of a manager pursuant to sec. 36 
German Banking Act, 
4.
a fine pursuant to sec. 56 of the German Banking Act or a 
threatened penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment 
amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc., 
5.
the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 of the 
German Banking Act, 
6.
an order to increase the capital requirements Goldman Sachs 
Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 
of the German Banking Act, 
- 13 -
7.
a measure in case of organizational deficiencies, 
8.
a comparable regulatory order, or
9.
a material supervisory measure; or
C.
you acted in serious violation of relevant external or internal rules with 
respect to suitability and conduct, provided that a violation is considered serious if it 
suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant to sec. 626 German 
Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct pursuant to sec. 1 German 
Termination Protection Act. 
(b)
You Engage in Actionable Misconduct.  If the Committee determines that you engaged in 
Actionable Misconduct, which if known (or if known, adequately considered) would have resulted in a 
reduction to your annual variable compensation when your variable compensation for that year was 
determined, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your Short-Term RSUs (whether or not Vested) 
will terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such Short-Term RSUs.
(i)
“Actionable Misconduct” means either or both of:
A.
“Unethical behavior” within the meaning of the IVV;
B.
“Breach of duty” within the meaning of the IVV. 
(ii)
“IVV” means the German Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions 
(Institutsvergütungsverordnung) and applicable guidance from the German Federal Financial 
Supervisory Authority (BaFin) or the European Central Bank.
(c)
Scope of Appendix.  This Appendix applies to any individual who, at any point in [____], 
was classified by the Firm as a Material Risk Taker (“GSBE MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSBE 
Senior Management”) in connection with the business operations of GSBE or any branch or subsidiary 
thereof whether or not GSBE or any branch or subsidiary thereof employed such individual.
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by this Appendix (including your refusal to remit 
payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 14 of this Award Agreement 
and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of such dispute, controversy or claim 
(including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 14 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings:
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A.  
(b) “Acceptance Deadline” means the date communicated to you by the Firm as the deadline 
to accept your Award.  The Acceptance Deadline will be no less than 14 days after the Award 
Documentation is first made available to you in full.  To the extent you are entitled to a translation in 
accordance with the Language Notice for Equity Awards provided to you as part of the Award 
Documentation, the Acceptance Deadline will be extended by the time required to furnish you with any 
such translation.
(c) “Breached an Obligation to the Firm” means that you failed to meet, in any respect, any 
obligation under any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with your 
Employment or this Award (including any applicable Additional Terms); including, without limitation, 
any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders’ agreement relating to the Firm.  Your failure 
to pay or reimburse the Firm, on demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm will constitute (i) failure to 
meet an obligation you have under an agreement, regardless of whether such obligation arises under a 
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause. 
(d) “Committee” means the Compensation Committee unless otherwise determined by the 
Board; provided, however, that: (i) the authority of the Compensation Committee to administer the Plan 
and the Award may be granted or delegated to the SIP Committee, in which case “Committee” means the 
SIP Committee when acting pursuant to such a grant or delegation; (ii) to the extent the Board determines 
it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) 
or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, “Committee” shall be a committee or 
subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a “non-employee 
director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3; and (iii) to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate 
for the compensation realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” 
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, “Committee” shall be a committee or subcommittee of 
the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning 
of Code Section 162(m).  
(e) “Compensation Committee” means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(f) “Conflicted Employment” means your employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local 
government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or international organization, any self-
regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any 
other employer (other than an “Accounting Firm” within the meaning of SEC Rule 2-01(f)(2) of 
Regulation S-X or any successor thereto) determined by the Committee, if, as a result of such 
employment, your continued holding of any Outstanding Short-Term RSUs would result in an actual or 
perceived conflict of interest.
(g) “Delivery Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the month 
and year specified on your Award Statement as a delivery date, so long as any such date occurs before the 
29th day of the month specified on the Award Statement; if there is no such date, the Delivery Date will 
- 15 -
be the earlier of another date selected by the Committee in the month and year specified on the Award 
Statement or the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.
(h) “Failed to Consider Risk” means that you participated (or otherwise oversaw or were 
responsible for, depending on the circumstances, another individual’s participation) in the structuring or 
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the 
purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the 
risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly 
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result 
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to 
be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system. This 
definition is not limited to financial risks and is designed to encourage the consideration of the full range 
of risks associated with activities (e.g., legal, compliance or reputational).  This definition also does not 
require that a material adverse impact actually occur, but, rather, may be triggered if it is determined that 
there is a reasonable expectation of such an impact.
(i) “HCM” means the Firm’s Human Capital Management Division or its successor. 
(j) “Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control” means that the Firm terminates your 
Employment other than for Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, in each case, 
within 18 months following a Change in Control.
(k) “SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(l) “Signature Card” means the document and/or website presented to you with your Award 
that you are required to execute (including electronically) to indicate your acceptance of the Award, the 
Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and the terms contained in the Signature Card) and 
Additional Terms applicable to you, as well your receipt of the Award Documentation.
- 16 -
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.   
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(c) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(d) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(e) “Cause” means (i) the Grantee’s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty 
or nolo contendere (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving 
fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, 
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge, or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses 
(A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations, (ii) the Grantee’s engaging in any 
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory 
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act), (iii) the Grantee’s willful failure to perform the 
Grantee’s duties to the Firm, (iv) the Grantee’s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules 
or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities 
exchange or association of which the Firm is a member, (v) the Grantee’s violation of any Firm policy 
concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or the Grantee’s material 
violation of any other Firm policy as in effect from time to time, (vi) the Grantee’s engaging in any act or 
making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the 
name, reputation or business interests of the Firm or (vii) the Grantee’s engaging in any conduct 
detrimental to the Firm.  The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the 
Committee in its sole discretion and, in such case, the Committee also may, but shall not be required to, 
specify the date such Cause occurred (including by determining that a prior termination of Employment 
was for Cause).  Any rights the Firm may have hereunder and in any Award Agreement in respect of the 
events giving rise to Cause shall be in addition to the rights the Firm may have under any other agreement 
with a Grantee or at law or in equity.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Change in Control” means the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share 
exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving GS Inc. (a “Reorganization”) or sale or other 
disposition of all or substantially all of GS Inc.’s assets to an entity that is not an affiliate of GS Inc. (a 
“Sale”), that in each case requires the approval of GS Inc.’s shareholders under the law of GS Inc.’s 
jurisdiction of organization, whether for such Reorganization or Sale (or the issuance of securities of GS 
Inc. in such Reorganization or Sale), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale, either:  
(i) at least 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the 
case of an entity other than a corporation) of (A) the entity resulting from such Reorganization, or the 
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc. in a Sale (in either case, the 
“Surviving Entity”), or (B) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has beneficial 
- 17 -
ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as such Rule is in effect on the 
date of the adoption of the 1999 SIP) of 50% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election 
of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity 
(the “Parent Entity”) is represented by GS Inc.’s securities (the “GS Inc. Securities”) that were 
outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares 
into which such GS Inc. Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale) or (ii) at least 
50% of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a 
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the 
consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the Board’s approval of the execution of 
the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, individuals (the “Incumbent Directors”) 
who either (A) were members of the Board on the Effective Date or (B) became directors subsequent to 
the Effective Date and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-
thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of GS Inc.’s 
proxy statement in which such persons are named as nominees for director).
(h) “Client” means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the Grantee provided 
services, or for whom the Grantee transacted business, or whose identity became known to the Grantee in 
connection with the Grantee’s relationship with or employment by the Firm.
(i) “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the 
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
(j) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(k) “Covered Person” means a member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of 
the Firm.
(l) “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
(m) “Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award. 
(n) “Effective Date” means the date this Plan is approved by the shareholders of GS Inc. 
pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Plan.
(o) “Employment” means the Grantee’s performance of services for the Firm, as determined 
by the Committee.  The terms “employ” and “employed” shall have their correlative meanings.  The 
Committee in its sole discretion may determine (i) whether and when a Grantee’s leave of absence results 
in a termination of Employment (for this purpose, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Grantee 
shall be treated as terminating Employment with the Firm upon the occurrence of an Extended Absence), 
(ii) whether and when a change in a Grantee’s association with the Firm results in a termination of 
Employment and (iii) the impact, if any, of any such leave of absence or change in association on Awards 
theretofore made.  Unless expressly provided otherwise, any references in the Plan or any Award 
Agreement to a Grantee’s Employment being terminated shall include both voluntary and involuntary 
terminations.  
- 18 -
(p) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(q) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(r) “Good Reason” means, in connection with a termination of employment by a Grantee 
following a Change in Control, (i) as determined by the Committee, a materially adverse alteration in the 
Grantee’s position or in the nature or status of the Grantee’s responsibilities from those in effect 
immediately prior to the Change in Control or (ii) the Firm’s requiring the Grantee’s principal place of 
Employment to be located more than seventy-five (75) miles from the location where the Grantee is 
principally Employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required travel on the Firm’s 
business to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee’s customary business travel obligations in 
the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).
(s) “Grantee” means a person who receives an Award.
(t) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(u) “1999 SIP” means The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect prior to 
the effective date of the 2003 SIP.
(v) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, cancelled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(w) “RSU” means a restricted stock unit granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.  
(x) “RSU Shares” means shares of Common Stock that underlie an RSU.
(y) “Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(z) “SIP Administrator” means each person designated by the Committee as a “SIP 
Administrator” with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative functions for the Plan.
(aa)“SIP Committee” means the persons who have been delegated certain authority under the 
Plan by the Committee.  
(ab)“Transfer Restrictions” means restrictions that prohibit the sale, exchange, transfer, 
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposal (including through the use of 
any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by the Grantee, of an Award or any 
shares of Common Stock, cash or other property delivered in respect of an Award.  
(ac)“Vested” means, with respect to an Award, the portion of the Award that is not subject to 
a condition that the Grantee remain actively employed by the Firm in order for the Award to remain 
Outstanding.  The fact that an Award becomes Vested shall not mean or otherwise indicate that the 
- 19 -
Grantee has an unconditional or nonforfeitable right to such Award, and such Award shall remain subject 
to such terms, conditions and forfeiture provisions as may be provided for in the Plan or in the Award 
Agreement. 
(ad)“Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 20 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
[One-Time][Year-End] Performance-Based RSU Award
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your __________ award of performance-based RSUs (your 
“Award” or “PSUs”).  You should read carefully this entire document (including its 
[Appendix][Appendices]), the Award Statement and the Signature Card (together, the “Award 
Agreement”), as well as the other documentation presented to you in connection with acceptance of 
your Award (collectively, “Award Documentation”).
Acceptance
1.
You Must Decide Whether to Accept Your Award.  To be eligible for your Award, 
you must by the Acceptance Deadline: (a) open and activate an Account; (b) accept any Additional 
Terms presented to you as part of the Award Documentation; and (c) execute (including by 
electronic means) the accompanying Signature Card in accordance with its instructions.  By 
executing the Signature Card, you confirm your agreement to all of the terms of the Award 
Agreement (including the Award Statement and the Signature Card), as well as any Additional 
Terms. 
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
2.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  The Plan and its Prospectus are included with the Award 
Documentation. 
3.
Your Award Statement.  The accompanying Award Statement contains the number of 
PSUs awarded to you and some of your Award’s specific terms.  For example, it specifies the 
Performance Period and the Performance Goal[s] applicable to your Award.  It also contains the 
Determination Date and the Settlement Date[s] for your Award and [the] [any applicable] Transferability 
Date[s] for any Shares at Risk that may be delivered to you in respect of any Settlement Amount that you 
may earn.  The number of PSUs on your Award Statement is not necessarily the number of PSUs in 
respect of which the Settlement Amount will be earned, but is merely the basis for determining the 
amount (if any) that will be delivered to you. 
4.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan.  
Vesting of Your PSUs
5.
Vesting.  All of your PSUs are Vested.  When a PSU is Vested, it means only that your 
continued active Employment is not required to earn delivery in respect of that PSU.  Vesting does not 
mean you have a non-forfeitable right to the Vested portion of your Award.  The terms of this 
Award Agreement (including conditions to delivery, satisfaction of the Performance Goal[s] and 
any applicable Transfer Restrictions) continue to apply to Vested PSUs, and you can still forfeit 
Vested PSUs and any Shares at Risk.
Performance Goal[s]
6.
Performance.  The Settlement Amount is dependent, and may vary based, on 
achievement of the Performance Goal[s] over the Performance Period.  On the Determination Date, the 
Firm will determine whether or not, and to what extent, the Performance Goal[s] for that Performance 
Period [has][have] been satisfied.  All your rights with respect to the Settlement Amount [(and any 
Dividend Equivalent Payments)] are dependent on the extent to which the Performance Goal[s] [is][are] 
achieved, and any rights to delivery in respect of your Outstanding PSUs immediately will terminate and 
EXHIBIT 10.42
no Settlement Amount will be delivered in respect of such PSUs upon the Committee’s determination, in 
its sole discretion, that the Performance Goal[s] [has][have] not been satisfied to the extent necessary to 
result in delivery in respect of the PSUs.  
Settlement Amount
7.
Settlement.  
(a)
In General.  Subject to satisfaction of the terms of your Award, including satisfaction of 
the Performance Goal[s], on [the] [each] Settlement Date [listed on your Award Statement], you will 
receive delivery (less applicable withholding as described in Paragraph 13(b)) of the [applicable portion 
of the] Settlement Amount [and payment of any Dividend Equivalent Payments] as further described in 
this Award Agreement and in your Award Statement.  Until such delivery [and payment], you have only 
the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc. with respect to either 
the PSUs or the Settlement Amount.  Without limiting the Committee’s authority under Section 1.3.2(h) 
of the Plan, the Firm may accelerate any Settlement Date by up to 30 days.   
(b)
Form of Delivery.  The Settlement Amount will be delivered [in the form of Shares [at 
Risk] (by book entry credit to your Account)] [as follows:
(i)
__% in the form of cash.
(ii)
__% in the form of Shares at Risk (by book entry credit to your Account)].  
(c)
Shares at Risk.  [All] [___ percent] of the Shares delivered to you in respect of the 
Settlement Amount will be subject to Transfer Restrictions until the [applicable] Transferability Date.  
Any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or 
other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions on Shares at Risk will be void.  
(d)
Release of Transfer Restrictions.  Within 30 Business Days after the [applicable] 
Transferability Date identified on your Award Statement, GS Inc. will remove the Transfer Restrictions 
on any Shares at Risk [in respect of the amount of Outstanding PSUs listed next to that date].  The 
Committee may select multiple dates within the 30-Business-Day period on which to remove Transfer 
Restrictions for all or a portion of the Shares at Risk with the same Transferability Date, and all such 
dates will be treated as a single Transferability Date for purposes of this Award.
Dividends
8.
[Dividend Equivalent Rights and] Dividends.  [To the extent described in your Award 
Statement, each PSU will include a Dividend Equivalent Right, which will be subject to the provisions of 
Section 2.8 of the Plan.  Accordingly, for each of your Outstanding PSUs with respect to which delivery 
is made under the Settlement Amount, you will be entitled to payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights 
equal to any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share for which the record date occurs 
on or after the Date of Grant.  The payment to you of amounts under Dividend Equivalent Rights (less 
applicable withholding as described in Paragraph 13(b)) is conditioned upon the delivery under the 
Settlement Amount in respect of the PSUs to which such Dividend Equivalent Rights relate, and you will 
have no right to receive any Dividend Equivalent Payments relating to PSUs for which you do not receive 
delivery under the Settlement Amount (including, without limitation, due to a failure to satisfy the 
Performance Goal[s]).  Dividend Equivalent Payments will be paid on the [applicable] Settlement Date.]  
[In addition, you][You] will be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend paid in 
respect of any Shares at Risk.  [The PSUs do not include Dividend Equivalent Rights.]
Forfeiture of Your Award
9.
How You May Forfeit Your Award.  This Paragraph 9 sets forth the events that result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your PSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of 
up to all other amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with 
- 2 -
Paragraph 10.  More than one event may apply, and in no case will the occurrence of one event limit the 
forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event.  Paragraph 12 
(relating to certain circumstances under which release of Transfer Restrictions may be accelerated) 
provides for exceptions to one or more provisions of this Paragraph 9.  
(a)
PSUs Forfeited Upon Certain Events.  If any of the following occurs, your rights to all of 
your Outstanding PSUs will terminate, and no Settlement Amount will be delivered in respect of such 
PSUs, as may be further described below:  
(i)
You Associate With a Covered Enterprise.  Except as prohibited by applicable 
law, you Associate With a Covered Enterprise during the Performance Period.
(ii)
You Solicit Clients or Employees, Interfere with Client or Employee 
Relationships or Participate in the Hiring of Employees.  Before the [applicable] Settlement Date and 
except as prohibited by applicable law, either:  
A.
(A) 
you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client 
to transact business with a Covered Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the 
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the 
Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign from the Firm, (4) 
Solicit any Selected Firm Personnel to apply for or accept employment (or other association) with any 
person or entity other than the Firm or (5) participate in the hiring of any Selected Firm Personnel by any 
person or entity other than the Firm (including, without limitation, participating in the identification of 
individuals for potential hire, and participating in any hiring decision), whether as an employee or 
consultant or otherwise, or 
B.
(B) 
Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into 
partnership, membership or similar status by any entity where you have, or will have, direct or indirect 
managerial responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel, unless the Committee determines that you 
were not involved in such Solicitation, hiring or acceptance.
(iii)
[GS Inc. Fails to Maintain the Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio.  Before the 
[applicable] Settlement Date, GS Inc. fails to maintain the required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” as 
defined under Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive 
business days.]
(iv)
[GS Inc. Is Determined to Be in Default.  Before the [applicable] Settlement 
Date, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the FDIC makes a written recommendation under 
Title II (Orderly Liquidation Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act for the appointment of the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a determination that GS Inc. is “in 
default” or “in danger of default.”]
(b)
PSUs and Shares at Risk Forfeited upon Certain Events.  If any of the following occurs 
(i) your rights to all of your Outstanding PSUs will terminate, and no Settlement Amount will be 
delivered in respect of such PSUs and (ii) your rights to any Shares at Risk will terminate and all such 
Shares at Risk will be cancelled, in each case, as may be further described below:
(i)
You Failed to Consider Risk.  You Failed to Consider Risk during ____. 
(ii)
Your Conduct Constitutes Cause.  Any event that constitutes Cause has occurred 
before the [applicable] Settlement Date for PSUs or the [applicable] Transferability Date for any Shares at 
Risk.
- 3 -
(iii)
You Breach an Obligation to the Firm.  The Committee determines that, before 
the [applicable] Settlement Date for PSUs or the [applicable] Transferability Date for any Shares at Risk, 
you Breached an Obligation to the Firm.
(iv)
You Do Not Provide Timely Certifications or Comply with Your Certifications.  
You fail to certify to GS Inc. that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award 
Agreement as required by Paragraph 13(d), or the Committee determines that you have failed to comply 
with a term of the Plan or this Award Agreement to which you have certified compliance.
(v)
You Do Not Follow Dispute Resolution Procedures.  You attempt to have any 
dispute, controversy or claim under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any manner that is not 
provided for by Paragraph 16 or Section 3.17 of the Plan, or you attempt to arbitrate a dispute, 
controversy or claim without first having exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance 
with Paragraph 13(c).  
(vi)
You Bring an Action that Results in a Determination that Any Award Agreement 
Term Is Invalid.  As a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any term of this Award 
Agreement is invalid. 
(vii)
You Receive Compensation in Respect of Your Award from Another Employer.  
Your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively Employed with the 
Firm and another entity grants you cash, equity or other property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, 
substitute for or otherwise in respect of any Outstanding PSUs or Shares at Risk; provided, however, that 
your rights will only be terminated in respect of the PSUs or Shares at Risk that are replaced, substituted 
for or otherwise considered by such other entity in making its grant.
(viii)
[Accounting Restatement Required Under Sarbanes-Oxley.  GS Inc. is required 
to prepare an accounting restatement due to GS Inc.’s material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, 
with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws as described in Section 304(a) of 
Sarbanes-Oxley; provided, however, that your rights will only be terminated in respect of PSUs or Shares 
at Risk to the same extent that would be required under Section 304(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley had you been a 
“chief executive officer” or “chief financial officer” of GS Inc. (regardless of whether you actually hold 
such position at the relevant time).]
(ix)
Accounting Restatement Required and Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy Applies.  
GS Inc. is required to prepare an “Accounting Restatement” as described in GS Inc.’s Policy for Recovery 
of Erroneously Awarded Compensation (the “Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy”); in each case if, and to the 
same extent as, required under the Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy.  For the avoidance of doubt, PSUs 
previously granted to you and Shares at Risk in respect of PSUs previously granted to you are also subject 
to forfeiture and clawback under this Paragraph 9(b)[(viii)/(ix)].
(c)
[Additional Forfeiture and Repayment Conditions for Material Risk Takers.  Since the 
Firm identified you as a Material Risk Taker (“MRT”) in ____, the EU and UK Material Risk Taker 
Appendix and/or the GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix (as applicable to you, the “MRT 
Appendix”) supplements this Paragraph 9.  The MRT Appendix sets forth additional events that (i) result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your PSUs and Shares at Risk and (ii) may require repayment to the Firm of up 
to all amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  
Your MRT classification, as defined in the MRT Appendix, was communicated to you separately.  If you 
are unsure of which classification(s) apply, you must contact HCM prior to accepting this Award.  The 
Firm’s records with respect to such classification(s) will be controlling as to whether the MRT Appendix 
applies to your Award.  The MRT classifications with their corresponding MRT Appendix are as follows:
MRT Classification
MRT Appendix
EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior 
Management and/or UK MRT
EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
- 4 -
GSBE MRT and GSBE Senior Management
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management and 
any combination of EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, 
GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix and 
EU and UK Material Risk Taker 
Appendix]
(d)
Actions Pending Forfeiture.  In connection with any investigation as to whether any of 
the events that would result in forfeiture under the Plan[,] [or] this Paragraph 9 [or the MRT Appendix] 
have occurred, the Firm reserves the right to (i) suspend [any Dividend Equivalent Payments,] delivery of 
the Settlement Amount or release of any Transfer Restrictions; (ii) deliver the Settlement Amount[,] [any 
Dividend Equivalent Payments] [or] dividends into an escrow account in accordance with Paragraph 
13(e)(iii); or (iii) apply Transfer Restrictions to any Shares.
Repayment of Your Award
10.
When You May Be Required to Repay Your Award.  
(a)
Repayment Generally.  If the Committee determines that any term of this Award was not 
satisfied, you will be required, immediately upon demand therefor, to repay to the Firm the following:
(i)
Any Settlement Amount (including any Shares at Risk) for which the terms 
(including the terms for delivery) of the related PSUs were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.6.3 
of the Plan.
(ii)
Any Shares at Risk for which the terms (including the terms for the release of 
Transfer Restrictions) were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.5.3 of the Plan.
(iii)
[Any Shares that were delivered (but not subject to Transfer Restrictions) at the 
same time any Shares at Risk that are cancelled or required to be repaid were delivered.]
(iv)
[Any Dividend Equivalent Payments for which the terms were not satisfied 
(including any such payments made in respect of PSUs that are forfeited or any Settlement Amount that is 
required to be repaid), in accordance with Section 2.8.3 of the Plan.]
(v)
Any dividends paid in respect of any [delivered Shares (including] Shares at 
Risk[)] that are cancelled or required to be repaid.
(vi)
Any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations with respect 
to any PSUs, Settlement Amount (including Shares at Risk)[,] [and] dividend payments [and Dividend 
Equivalent Payments] that are forfeited or required to be repaid. 
(b)
Repayment Upon Materially Inaccurate Financial Statements.  If any delivery is made 
under this Award Agreement based on materially inaccurate financial statements (which includes, but is 
not limited to, statements of earnings, revenues or gains) or other materially inaccurate performance 
criteria, you will be obligated to repay to the Firm, immediately upon demand therefor, any excess 
amount delivered, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  For the avoidance of doubt, this 
Paragraph 10(b) includes any repayment required following an “Accounting Restatement” under the 
Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy.
(c)
[Repayment Upon Accounting Restatement Required Under Sarbanes-Oxley.  If an event 
described in Paragraph 9(b)(viii) (relating to a requirement under Sarbanes-Oxley that GS Inc. prepare an 
accounting restatement) occurs, any Settlement Amount (including Shares at Risk), dividend payments, 
[Dividend Equivalent Payments,] cash or other property delivered, paid or withheld in respect of this 
Award will be subject to repayment as described in Paragraph 10(a) to the same extent that would be 
required under Section 304(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley had you been a “chief executive officer” or “chief 
financial officer” of GS Inc. (regardless of whether you actually hold such position at the relevant time).]
- 5 -
Terminations of Employment 
11.
Treatment of PSUs.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if your Employment 
terminates for any reason or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed with the Firm (which 
includes off-premises notice periods, “garden leaves,” pay in lieu of notice or any other similar status), 
the Performance Goal[s] applicable to your Outstanding PSUs will continue to apply and the 
determination of the Settlement Amount will continue to be subject to whether, and to what extent, the 
Performance Goal[s] [has][have] been achieved, in each case, as provided in Paragraph 6.  All other terms 
of this Award Agreement, including the forfeiture and repayment events in Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the 
MRT Appendix], continue to apply.
12.
Accelerated Release of Transfer Restrictions on Shares at Risk in the Event of [a 
Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control or] Death.  In the event of your [Qualifying 
Termination After a Change in Control or] death, [each] as described below, any Shares at Risk [(and 
delivery of your Settlement Amount in the case of death in certain circumstances)] will be treated as 
described in this Paragraph 12, and[, except as set forth in Paragraph 12(a),] all other terms of this Award 
Agreement, including the other forfeiture and repayment events in Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT 
Appendix], continue to apply.  [In each case, the Performance Goal[s] applicable to your Outstanding 
PSUs will continue to apply and the determination of the Settlement Amount will continue to be subject 
to whether or not, and to what extent, the Performance Goal[s] [has][have] been achieved, in each case, as 
provided in Paragraph 6.]
(a)
[You Have a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control.  If your Employment 
terminates when you meet the requirements of a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control, any 
Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply to your Shares at Risk.  In addition, the forfeiture events in 
Paragraph 9 [(except the MRT Appendix)] will not apply to your Shares at Risk.]
(b)
Death.  If you die, [as soon as practicable] after receipt of any [such] documentation as 
may be requested by the Committee or a SIP Administrator, [any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply 
to your Shares at Risk] [unless prohibited by applicable law or regulation:
(i)
If you die prior to the Determination Date or an applicable Settlement Date, the 
representative of your estate will receive delivery of any undelivered portion of the Settlement Amount 
that would have otherwise been made pursuant to Paragraph 6 as soon as practicable after the later of the 
date of death and the Determination Date.  
(ii)
Any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply to your Shares at Risk.]
Other Terms And Conditions of Your Award
13.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Consents.
(a)
You Will Be Required to Accept Additional Terms.  In addition to the terms of the 
Award Agreement, the Award Documentation includes other contractual terms that you must accept as a 
condition of the Award (the “Additional Terms”).  By accepting the Award and executing the Signature 
Card, you agree to any such Additional Terms applicable to you as set forth in the Award Documentation, 
which will include but are not limited to the following:  
(i)
Notice Period Policy.  You must agree to abide by the terms, as applicable to 
you, of the Policy on Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based Awards and Other 
Deferred Compensation (the “Notice Period Policy”).
(ii)
Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters.  You must 
agree to the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which imposes 
obligations in addition to those contained in Paragraph 16. 
- 6 -
(iii)
APAC Restrictive Covenants.  If you are employed by the Firm in the Asia-
Pacific Region (e.g., Australia, the People’s Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, Taiwan), you must 
agree to the APAC Restrictive Covenants Agreement.
(iv)
Role-, Business- or Division-Specific Agreements.  If applicable to you, you 
must accept Additional Terms related to your specific role, business unit or division as set forth in the 
Award Documentation.
(b)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Delivery of the Settlement 
Amount is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with 
Section 3.2 of the Plan, which includes the Firm deducting or withholding amounts from any payment or 
distribution to you.  In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, 
may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, state, local, foreign or other 
tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant or delivery of this Award by 
requiring you to choose between remitting the amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or 
otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm’s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you 
under this Award.  In no event, however, does this Paragraph 13(b) give you any discretion to determine 
or affect the timing of the delivery of the Settlement Amount or the timing of payment of tax obligations.
(c)
You Must Comply with Applicable Deadlines and Procedures to Appeal.  If you disagree 
with a determination made by the Committee, the SIP Administrators or any of their delegates or 
designees relating to the Plan or the Award Agreement and you wish to appeal such determination, you 
must submit a written request to the Committee for review within 180 days after the determination at 
issue.  You must exhaust your internal administrative remedies (i.e., submit your appeal and wait for 
resolution of that appeal) before seeking to resolve a dispute, controversy or claim through arbitration 
pursuant to Paragraph 16 and Section 3.17 of the Plan.
(d)
You May Be Required to Certify Compliance with Award Terms; You Are Responsible 
for Providing Updated Address and Contact Information After Your Departure from the Firm.  If your 
Employment terminates while you continue to hold PSUs or Shares at Risk, the Firm may require you to 
provide certifications of your compliance with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  
You understand and agree that (i) your contact information as reflected in the Firm’s personnel records at 
the time any certification is requested will be deemed current; (ii) it is your responsibility to inform HCM 
of any changes to your contact information to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, 
regardless of whether your contact information is provided to another part of the Firm; and (iii) you are 
responsible for contacting the Firm to obtain such certification materials if not received.  Your failure to 
return properly completed certification materials by the specified deadline (including because you did not 
provide HCM with updated contact information) will result in the forfeiture of all of your PSUs and any 
Shares at Risk and subject previously delivered amounts to repayment under Paragraph 10. 
(e)
You Agree to Other Terms, Conditions and Consents.  By accepting this Award you 
understand and agree that:
(i)
Amounts May Be Rounded to Avoid Fractional Shares.  Any amounts delivered 
in respect of the Settlement Amount, including Shares at Risk, may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares.
(ii)
Firm May Deliver Cash or Other Property in Respect of the Settlement Amount.  
In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the sole discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or 
any portion of the Settlement Amount, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under the 
Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to delivery of the Settlement Amount 
will include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other property.
(iii)
Firm May Deliver Your Award into an Escrow Account.  The Firm may establish 
and maintain an escrow account on such terms (which may include your executing any documents related 
to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such account) as it may deem necessary or appropriate, 
and the Settlement Amount may initially be delivered, and any [Dividend Equivalent Payments and] 
dividends may initially be paid, into and held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has 
- 7 -
received such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any 
other conditions or restrictions on deliveries required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied.
(iv)
Firm May Affix Legends and Place Stop Orders on Shares.  GS Inc. may affix to 
Certificates representing Shares any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable 
(including to reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under the Additional Terms, a separate 
agreement or any Firm policy applicable to you).  GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop 
order against any legended Shares.  For the avoidance of doubt, Shares as used herein includes, without 
limitation, Restricted Shares.
(v)
You Authorize the Firm to Register, in Its or Its Designee’s Name, Any 
Restricted Shares and Sell, Assign or Transfer Any Forfeited Restricted Shares.  You are granting to the 
Firm the full power and authority to register any Restricted Shares in its or its designee’s name and 
authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell, assign or transfer any Restricted Shares if you forfeit your 
Restricted Shares.
(vi)
You Agree to Certain Consents as a Condition to the Award.  You have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying to any 
third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as the Committee 
deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional consents that the 
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
(vii)
You Are Subject to the Firm’s Policies, Rules and Procedures.  You are subject 
to the Firm’s policies in effect from time to time concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging 
Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards (including, without limitation, the “Firmwide 
Policy with Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities and GS Equity Awards” or any 
successor policies), and confidential or proprietary information, and you will effect sales of Shares in 
accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time (which may include, 
without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are 
executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the 
Firm).
(viii)
You Are Responsible for Costs Associated with Your Award.  You will be 
responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with your Award, including 
those related to the sale of Shares.
(ix)
You Will Be Deemed to Represent Your Compliance with All the Terms of Your 
Award if You Accept Delivery of, or Sell, Shares.  You will be deemed to have represented and certified 
that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement when any Settlement 
Amount [and Dividend Equivalent Payments] [is][are] delivered to you and you request the sale of Shares 
following the release of Transfer Restrictions on any Shares at Risk.
(x)
You Agree that Covered Persons Will Not Have Liability.  In addition to and 
without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor any 
Covered Person will have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or omitted in 
respect of this or any other Award. 
14.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the 
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported sale, exchange, 
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition (including 
through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntary or involuntary, in violation of the 
provisions of this Paragraph 14 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  
15.
Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 18(d), the obligation to deliver the 
Settlement Amount, pay dividends [or Dividend Equivalent Payments] or release any Transfer 
Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the 
Firm’s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any 
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement. 
- 8 -
Arbitration, Choice of Forum and Governing Law
16.
Arbitration; Choice of Forum.
(a)
By accepting this award, you are indicating that you understand and agree that the 
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Section 3.17 of the Plan will apply to this 
Award to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.  These provisions, which are expressly 
incorporated herein by reference, provide among other things that any dispute, controversy or 
claim between the Firm and you arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or this Award 
Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration, pursuant to the terms more fully set forth in 
Section 3.17 of the Plan; provided that nothing herein shall preclude you from filing a charge with 
or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by any governmental authority, 
including but not limited to the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and a state 
or local human rights agency, as well as law enforcement.
(b)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement includes an agreement to arbitrate claims 
on a collective, class or representative basis.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider class, collective or representative claims, to order 
consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief other than on an individual basis to the 
individual claimant involved.
(c)
Notwithstanding any applicable forum rules to the contrary, to the extent there is a 
question of enforceability of the Plan or this Award Agreement arising from a challenge to the arbitrator’s 
jurisdiction or to the arbitrability of a claim, it will be decided by a court and not an arbitrator.
(d)
Prior to filing any arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16(a), you must first exhaust 
your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c), which includes awaiting the 
Committee’s final determination of any such appeal.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider any dispute, controversy or claim as to which you have not 
first exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c).
(e)
The Federal Arbitration Act governs interpretation and enforcement of all arbitration 
provisions under the Plan and this Award Agreement, and all arbitration proceedings thereunder.
(f)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement creates a substantive right to bring a claim 
under U.S. Federal, state, or local employment laws.
(g)
By accepting your Award, you irrevocably appoint each General Counsel of GS Inc., or 
any person whom the General Counsel of GS Inc. designates, as your agent for service of process in 
connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any 
Award which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.17.1 of the Plan, who shall promptly 
advise you of any such service of process.
(h)
As a condition of your Award, you also must accept the terms of the Agreement 
Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which is included among the Additional Terms 
described in Paragraph 13(a) and sets forth obligations independent of this Paragraph 16.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, the obligation to exhaust your internal remedies described in Paragraph 13(c) and 
Paragraph 16(d) only applies to disputes, controversies or claims relating to the Plan or the Award 
Agreement. 
17.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
18.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 18 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
- 9 -
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are intended and 
will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements applicable to, or the 
conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), whether by reason of short-
term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The Committee will have full authority to give 
effect to this intent.  To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or 
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and 
this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any 
conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 18 and the other provisions of this Award 
Agreement, this Paragraph 18 will govern.
(b)
Settlement will not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions or 
restrictions on settlement in respect of your PSUs required by this Award Agreement (including the 
consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied.  To the extent that any portion 
of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for short-term deferral treatment under Section 
409A, settlement in respect of such portion will occur by the March 15 coinciding with the last day of the 
applicable “short-term deferral” period described in Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for settlement to be 
within the short-term deferral exception unless, in order to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions 
on settlement to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as 
may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay settlement to a later date within the same 
calendar year or to such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 1.409A-3(d).  
For the avoidance of doubt, if the Award includes a “series of installment payments” as described in Reg. 
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), your right to the series of installment payments will be treated as a right to a series of 
separate payments and not as a right to a single payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 13(e) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the 
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any delivery or payment [(including in the form of Shares 
at Risk or other property)] that the Firm may make in respect of your PSUs will not have the effect of 
deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on 
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with 
respect to the payment or delivery that would otherwise have been made (unless the Committee elects a 
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under 
Section 409A, including and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election provisions of Section 
409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).
(d)
Paragraph 15 and Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A 
Deferred Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
(e)
Settlement in respect of any portion of the Award may be made, if and to the extent 
elected by the Committee, later than the [applicable] Settlement Date or other date or period specified 
hereinabove (but, in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred Compensation, only to the 
extent that the later payment or delivery, as applicable, is permitted under Section 409A).  
(f)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any taxes 
and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to designate, directly or 
indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.
Committee Authority, Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting
19.
Committee Authority.  The Committee has the authority to determine, in its sole 
discretion, that any event triggering forfeiture or repayment of your Award will not apply, to limit the 
forfeitures and repayments that result under Paragraphs 9 and 10 and to remove any Transfer Restrictions 
before the [applicable] Transferability Date.  
20.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement and the 
- 10 -
Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan.  A modification that impacts the tax 
consequences of this Award or the timing of delivery of the Settlement Amount will not be an amendment 
that materially adversely affects your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement.  Any 
amendment of this Award Agreement will be in writing.
21.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.
22.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities; Protected Communications.  
In accordance with applicable law, nothing in this Award Agreement (including the forfeiture and 
repayment provisions in Paragraphs 9 and 10) or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from engaging in protected concerted activity pursuant to applicable law protecting such activity, 
including discussing wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of your employment; or speaking with 
your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations.  In addition, nothing in this Award 
Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting channels that are 
available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation. 
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
- 12 -
[EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
Qualitative Overlay Reduction
(g)
In addition to and without limiting the Firm’s rights under the forfeiture and repayment 
provisions set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 10 or in the “Forfeiture and Repayment” section below, the 
Committee may determine to reduce the Settlement Amount as described in the section entitled 
“Qualitative Overlay Reduction” in the Award Statement.  
Forfeiture and Repayment
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your PSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other amounts 
previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with the 
events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply, in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(d).  
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider certain factors to 
determine whether and what portion of your Award will terminate, including the reason for the Loss 
Event or Risk Event, as well as the extent to which you participated in the Loss Event or Risk Event and 
your compensation for the Firm’s ____ fiscal year may or may not have been adjusted to take into 
account the risk associated with the Loss Event, Risk Event, your Serious Misconduct or the Serious 
Misconduct of a Supervised Employee. Your compensation may be adjusted for the year in which the 
Loss Event, Risk Event, your Serious Misconduct or a Supervised Employee’s Serious Misconduct is 
discovered.
(a)
A Loss Event Occurs Prior to Delivery.  If a Loss Event occurs prior to the delivery of 
any portion of the Settlement Amount, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your PSUs which are 
scheduled to deliver on the next Settlement Date immediately following the date that the Loss Event is 
identified (or, if not practicable, then the next following Settlement Date) will terminate, and no Shares 
will be delivered in respect of such PSUs.  
(i)
“Loss Event” means (A) an annual pre-tax loss at GS Inc. or (B) annual negative 
revenues in one or more reporting segments as disclosed in the Firm’s Form 10-K other than the Asset 
&Wealth Management segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by 
the Firm), or annual negative revenues in the Asset & Wealth Management segment (or any successor or 
equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by the Firm) of $5 billion or more, provided in either 
case that you are employed in a business within such reporting segment.
(b)
A Risk Event Occurs On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If a Risk Event occurs on 
or before the Applicable End Date, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your PSUs will 
terminate and no Settlement Amount will be delivered in respect of such PSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a 
portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled and (iii) you will be 
obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the 
Fair Market Value of the Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award (without 
reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as of (A) the 
date the Risk Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Risk Event” means there occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital 
from a reportable operational risk event determined in accordance with the firmwide Reporting and 
Operational Risk Events Policy (or any successor policy).  
- 13 -
(c)
You Engage in Serious Misconduct On or Before the Applicable Date.  If you engage in 
Serious Misconduct during the period beginning on the applicable Transferability Date through the 
Applicable End Date, you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount 
not in excess of the greater of the Fair Market Value of the Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered 
in respect of the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other 
obligations) determined as of (i) the date the Serious Misconduct occurred and (ii) the date that the 
repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Serious Misconduct” means that you engage in conduct that the Firm 
reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary termination of 
employment under applicable employment law.  
(d)
A Supervised Employee Engages in Serious Misconduct.  If the Committee determines 
that it is appropriate to hold you accountable in whole or in part for Serious Misconduct related to 
compliance, control or risk that occurred during the Firm’s ____ fiscal year by a Supervised Employee, 
your rights in respect of all or a portion of your PSUs will terminate and no Settlement Amount will be 
delivered in respect of such PSUs and your rights to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate 
and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled. 
(i)
“Supervised Employee” means an individual with respect to whom the 
Committee determines you had supervisory responsibility as a result of direct or indirect reporting lines or 
your management responsibility for an office, division or business. 
(e)
Certain Definitions.  
(i)
“Applicable End Date” means [__________][, with respect to each 
classification in the table below, the following:
Classification
Applicable End Date
EU MRT
__________
GSAMI MRT
__________
GSAMI Senior Management
__________
UK MRT
__________]
(ii)
“EU MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a (A) Material Risk Taker in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of the Alternative 
Investment Fund Managers Directive or Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable 
Securities V (“AIFMD-UCITS”), including “Identified Staff” under AIFMD-UCITS (“AIFMD-UCITS 
Identified Staff”), as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, B.V. 
(“GSAMBV”), Goldman Sachs Asset Management Belgium, S.A. (“GSAM Belgium”) or Goldman 
Sachs Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych S.A. (“GS TFI”), including any branch of subsidiary 
thereof (collectively, “GSAM Europe”), whether or not GSAM Europe has employed such individual; or 
(B) an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the Firm with respect to Goldman Sachs 
Paris Inc. et Cie in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of either the Capital Requirements 
Directive V or the Investment Firms Regulation/Investment Firms Directive, as a Material Risk Taker 
(“GSPIC MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSPIC Senior Management”).  EU MRT does not include 
AIFMD-UCITS Identified Staff of Goldman Sachs Asset Management Fund Services Ltd. 
(“GSAMFSL”).
(iii)
“GSAMI MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified 
by the Firm as a GSAMI Material Risk Taker in accordance with the remuneration code under the UK 
Investment Firms Prudential Regime (“IFPR”) as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management International Ltd. (“GSAMI”).  
- 14 -
(iv)
“GSAMI Senior Management” means an individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a GSAMI Senior Management in accordance with the remuneration code 
under the IFPR as applicable to the business operations of GSAMI.  
(v)
“UK MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a Material Risk Taker (including UK Risk Managers and UK PRA Senior Managers) in 
accordance with the remuneration codes applicable to dual-regulated UK firms.
(vi)
For purposes of these definitions, if during ____ you were classified by the Firm 
as any combination of EU MRT and GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT then your 
classification in the table above is EU MRT; any combination of GSAMI MRT or GSAMI Senior 
Management and UK MRT then your classification in the table above is UK MRT; or as a combination of 
GSAMI MRT and GSAMI Senior Management then your classification in the table above is GSAMI 
Senior Management.
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Appendix 
(including your refusal to remit payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with 
Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of 
such dispute, controversy or claim (including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 15 -
[GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider all relevant factors in 
making the decision, in its sole discretion as to whether an Adjustment Event or Actionable Misconduct 
have occurred.  
This Appendix applies to all RSUs in your Award if you are a GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management.
(a)
An Adjustment Event Occurs with Respect to ____.  If an Adjustment Event occurs with 
respect to ____, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will 
terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a portion 
of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, and (iii) you will be 
obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the 
Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award 
(without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as 
of (A) the date the Adjustment Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.
(i)
“Adjustment Event” means that one of the following has occurred:
A.
you significantly contributed to, or were responsible for, any conduct that 
resulted in a loss of 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc.;
B.
a material regulatory sanction for the Firm comprising one or more of the 
following: 
1.
a moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g of the German Banking Act, 
2.
a measure in case of danger pursuant to sec. 46 of the German 
Banking Act, 
3.
the revocation of appointment of a manager pursuant to sec. 36 
German Banking Act, 
4.
a fine pursuant to sec. 56 of the German Banking Act or a 
threatened penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment 
amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc., 
5.
the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 of the 
German Banking Act, 
6.
 an order to increase the capital requirements Goldman Sachs 
Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 
of the German Banking Act, 
- 16 -
7.
a measure in case of organizational deficiencies, 
8.
a comparable regulatory order, or
9.
a material supervisory measure; or
C.
you acted in serious violation of relevant external or internal rules with 
respect to suitability and conduct, provided that a violation is considered serious if it 
suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant to sec. 626 German 
Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct pursuant to sec. 1 German 
Termination Protection Act. 
(b)
You Engage in Actionable Misconduct.  If the Committee determines that you engaged in 
Actionable Misconduct, which if known (or if known, adequately considered) would have resulted in a 
reduction to your annual variable compensation when your variable compensation for that year was 
determined, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate 
and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs.
(i)
“Actionable Misconduct” means either or both of:
A.
“Unethical behavior” within the meaning of the IVV;
B.
“Breach of duty” within the meaning of the IVV. 
(ii)
“IVV” means the German Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions 
(Institutsvergütungsverordnung) and applicable guidance from the German Federal Financial Supervisory 
Authority (BaFin) or the European Central Bank.
(c)
Scope of Appendix.  This Appendix applies to any individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a Material Risk Taker (“GSBE MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSBE 
Senior Management”) in connection with the business operations of GSBE or any branch or subsidiary 
thereof, whether or not GSBE or any branch or subsidiary thereof employed such individual.  
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by this Appendix (including your refusal to remit 
payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement 
and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of such dispute, controversy or claim 
(including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 17 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings.
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A.  
(b) “Acceptance Deadline” means the date communicated to you by the Firm as the deadline 
to accept your Award.  The Acceptance Deadline will be no less than 14 days after the Award 
Documentation is first made available to you in full.  To the extent you are entitled to a translation in 
accordance with the Language Notice for Equity Awards provided to you as part of the Award 
Documentation, the Acceptance Deadline will be extended by the time required to furnish you with any 
such translation.
(c) “Associate With a Covered Enterprise” means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or 
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Covered Enterprise or (ii) associate 
in any capacity (including association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or 
advisor) with any Covered Enterprise.  Associate With a Covered Enterprise may include, as determined 
in the discretion of the Committee, (i) becoming the subject of any publicly available announcement or 
report of a pending or future association with a Covered Enterprise and (ii) unpaid associations, including 
an association in contemplation of future employment.  “Association With a Covered Enterprise” will 
have its correlative meaning.  
(d) “Breached an Obligation to the Firm” means that you failed to meet, in any respect, any 
obligation under any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with your 
Employment or this Award (including any applicable Additional Terms); including, without limitation, 
any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders’ agreement relating to the Firm.  Your failure 
to pay or reimburse the Firm, on demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm will constitute (i) failure to 
meet an obligation you have under an agreement, regardless of whether such obligation arises under a 
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause.
(e) “Committee” means the Compensation Committee unless otherwise determined by the 
Board; provided, however, that: (i) the authority of the Compensation Committee to administer the Plan 
and the Award may be granted or delegated to the SIP Committee, in which case “Committee” means the 
SIP Committee when acting pursuant to such a grant or delegation; (ii) to the extent the Board determines 
it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) 
or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, “Committee” shall be a committee or 
subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a “non-employee 
director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3; and (iii) to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate 
for the compensation realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” 
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, “Committee” shall be a committee or subcommittee of 
the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning 
of Code Section 162(m).
(f) “Compensation Committee” means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(g) “Covered Enterprise” means a Competitive Enterprise and any other existing or planned 
business enterprise that:  (i) offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer 
products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by the Firm or that the Firm 
- 18 -
reasonably expects to offer (“Firm Products or Services”) or (ii) engages in, holds itself out as engaging in 
or reasonably may be expected to engage in any other activity that is the same as or similar to any 
financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to engage (“Firm 
Activities”).  For the avoidance of doubt, Firm Activities include any activity that requires the same or 
similar skills as any financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to 
engage, irrespective of whether any such financial activity is in furtherance of an advisory, agency, 
proprietary or fiduciary undertaking.
The enterprises covered by this definition include enterprises that offer, hold themselves out 
as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services, or engage in, hold 
themselves out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities directly, as 
well as those that do so indirectly by ownership or control (e.g., by owning, being owned by or by being 
under common ownership with an enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be 
expected to offer Firm Products or Services or that engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or 
reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities).  The definition of Covered Enterprise includes, 
solely by way of example, any enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be 
expected to offer any product or service, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may 
be expected to engage in any activity, in any case, associated with investment banking; public or private 
finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than you or your family 
members (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any type of proprietary investing or trading); private 
wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial cash management; consumer, digital or 
commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge fund management; insurance or 
reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or securities, futures, commodities, energy, 
derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance, settlement or trading.  
An enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products 
or Services, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in 
Firm Activities is a Covered Enterprise, irrespective of whether the enterprise is a customer, client or 
counterparty of the Firm or is otherwise associated with the Firm and, because the Firm is a global 
enterprise, irrespective of where the Covered Enterprise is physically located.
(h) “Determination Date” means the date specified on your Award Statement as the date on 
which the Committee will determine whether or not, and to what extent, the Performance Goal[s] 
[was][were] achieved for the Performance Period.  
(i) [“Dividend Equivalent Payments” means any payments made in respect of Dividend 
Equivalent Rights.]
(j) “FDIC” means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor thereto.
(k) “Failed to Consider Risk” means that you participated (or otherwise oversaw or were 
responsible for, depending on the circumstances, another individual’s participation) in the structuring or 
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the 
purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the 
risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly 
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result 
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to 
be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system.  This 
definition is not limited to financial risks and is designed to encourage the consideration of the full range 
of risks associated with activities (e.g., legal, compliance or reputational).  This definition also does not 
- 19 -
require that a material adverse impact actually occur, but, rather, may be triggered if it is determined that 
there is a reasonable expectation of such an impact.
(l) “HCM” means the Firm’s Human Capital Management Division or its successor.
(m) “Performance Goal[s]” means the performance goal[s] determined by the Committee that 
[is][are] specified on your Award Statement.  
(n) “Performance Period” means the performance period determined by the Committee that 
is specified on your Award Statement.
(o) “Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control” means that the Firm terminates your 
Employment other than for Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, in each case, 
within 18 months following a Change in Control.
(p) [“Sarbanes-Oxley” means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended.]
(q) “SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(r) “Selected Firm Personnel” means any individual who is or in the three months preceding 
the conduct prohibited by Paragraph 9(a)(ii) was (i) a Firm employee or consultant with whom you 
personally worked while employed by the Firm, (ii) a Firm employee or consultant who, at any time 
during the year preceding the date of the termination of your Employment, worked in the same division in 
which you worked or (iii) an Advisory Director, a Managing Director (Participating or Extended) or a 
Senior Advisor of the Firm. 
(s) “Settlement Amount” means the amount deliverable to you in respect of your PSUs, 
which will be determined as described in the Award Statement.
(t) “Settlement Date” means each date specified on your Award Statement as the date on 
which the Settlement Amount will be delivered, provided, unless the Committee determines otherwise, 
such date is during a Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day 
of the first Window Period beginning after such date.
(u) “Share” means a share of Common Stock.
(v) “Shares at Risk” means Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions.
(w) “Signature Card” means the document and/or website presented to you with your Award 
that you are required to execute (including electronically) to indicate your acceptance of the Award, the 
Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and the terms contained in the Signature Card) and 
Additional Terms applicable to you, as well your receipt of the Award Documentation.
(x) “Transferability Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the 
month and year specified on your Award Statement as a transferability date; provided, however, that if 
there is no trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the specified month and year, the 
Transferability Date will be the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.
- 20 -
- 21 -
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(c) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(d) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(e) “Cause” means (i) the Grantee’s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty 
or nolo contendere (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving 
fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, 
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge, or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses 
(A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations, (ii) the Grantee’s engaging in any 
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory 
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act), (iii) the Grantee’s willful failure to perform the 
Grantee’s duties to the Firm, (iv) the Grantee’s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules 
or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities 
exchange or association of which the Firm is a member, (v) the Grantee’s violation of any Firm policy 
concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or the Grantee’s material 
violation of any other Firm policy as in effect from time to time, (vi) the Grantee’s engaging in any act or 
making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the 
name, reputation or business interests of the Firm or (vii) the Grantee’s engaging in any conduct 
detrimental to the Firm.  The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the 
Committee in its sole discretion and, in such case, the Committee also may, but shall not be required to, 
specify the date such Cause occurred (including by determining that a prior termination of Employment 
was for Cause).  Any rights the Firm may have hereunder and in any Award Agreement in respect of the 
events giving rise to Cause shall be in addition to the rights the Firm may have under any other agreement 
with a Grantee or at law or in equity.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Change in Control” means the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share 
exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving GS Inc. (a “Reorganization”) or sale or other 
disposition of all or substantially all of GS Inc.’s assets to an entity that is not an affiliate of GS Inc. (a 
“Sale”), that in each case requires the approval of GS Inc.’s shareholders under the law of GS Inc.’s 
jurisdiction of organization, whether for such Reorganization or Sale (or the issuance of securities of GS 
Inc. in such Reorganization or Sale), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale, either:  
(i) at least 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the 
case of an entity other than a corporation) of (A) the entity resulting from such Reorganization, or the 
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc. in a Sale (in either case, the 
“Surviving Entity”), or (B) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has beneficial 
- 22 -
ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as such Rule is in effect on the 
date of the adoption of the 1999 SIP) of 50% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election 
of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity 
(the “Parent Entity”) is represented by GS Inc.’s securities (the “GS Inc. Securities”) that were 
outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares 
into which such GS Inc. Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale) or (ii) at least 
50% of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a 
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the 
consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the Board’s approval of the execution of 
the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, individuals (the “Incumbent Directors”) 
who either (A) were members of the Board on the Effective Date or (B) became directors subsequent to 
the Effective Date and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-
thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of GS Inc.’s 
proxy statement in which such persons are named as nominees for director).
(h) “Client” means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the Grantee provided 
services, or for whom the Grantee transacted business, or whose identity became known to the Grantee in 
connection with the Grantee’s relationship with or employment by the Firm.
(i) “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the 
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
(j) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(k) “Competitive Enterprise” means an existing or planned business enterprise that (i) 
engages, or may reasonably be expected to engage, in any activity; (ii) owns or controls, or may 
reasonably be expected to own or control, a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity 
or (iii) is, or may reasonably be expected to be, owned by, or a significant interest in which is, or may 
reasonably be expected to be, owned or controlled by, any entity that engages in any activity that, in any 
case, competes or will compete anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged.  The activities 
covered by this definition include, without limitation: financial services such as investment banking; 
public or private finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than the 
Grantee and members of the Grantee’s family (including for the avoidance of doubt, any type of 
proprietary investing or trading); private wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial 
cash management; consumer, digital or commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge 
fund management; insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or 
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, 
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.
(l) “Covered Person” means a member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of 
the Firm.
(m) “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
(n) [“Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award.] 
- 23 -
(o) “Effective Date” means the date this Plan is approved by the shareholders of GS Inc. 
pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Plan.
(p) “Employment” means the Grantee’s performance of services for the Firm, as determined 
by the Committee.  The terms “employ” and “employed” shall have their correlative meanings.  The 
Committee in its sole discretion may determine (i) whether and when a Grantee’s leave of absence results 
in a termination of Employment (for this purpose, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Grantee 
shall be treated as terminating Employment with the Firm upon the occurrence of an Extended Absence), 
(ii) whether and when a change in a Grantee’s association with the Firm results in a termination of 
Employment and (iii) the impact, if any, of any such leave of absence or change in association on Awards 
theretofore made.  Unless expressly provided otherwise, any references in the Plan or any Award 
Agreement to a Grantee’s Employment being terminated shall include both voluntary and involuntary 
terminations.  
(q) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
(r) “Extended Absence” means the Grantee’s inability to perform for six (6) continuous 
months, due to illness, injury or pregnancy-related complications, substantially all the essential duties of 
the Grantee’s occupation, as determined by the Committee.
(s) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(t) “Good Reason” means, in connection with a termination of employment by a Grantee 
following a Change in Control, (i) as determined by the Committee, a materially adverse alteration in the 
Grantee’s position or in the nature or status of the Grantee’s responsibilities from those in effect 
immediately prior to the Change in Control or (ii) the Firm’s requiring the Grantee’s principal place of 
Employment to be located more than seventy-five (75) miles from the location where the Grantee is 
principally Employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required travel on the Firm’s 
business to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee’s customary business travel obligations in 
the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).
(u) “Grantee” means a person who receives an Award.
(v) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(w) “1999 SIP” means The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect prior to 
the effective date of the 2003 SIP. 
(x) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, cancelled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(y) “Restricted Share” means a share of Common Stock delivered under the Plan that is 
subject to Transfer Restrictions, forfeiture provisions and/or other terms and conditions specified herein 
and in the Restricted Share Award Agreement or other applicable Award Agreement.  All references to 
Restricted Shares include “Shares at Risk.”
- 24 -
(z) “RSU” means a restricted stock unit granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.
(aa)“Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(ab)“SIP Administrator” means each person designated by the Committee as a “SIP 
Administrator” with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative functions for the Plan.
(ac)“SIP Committee” means the persons who have been delegated certain authority under the 
Plan by the Committee.  
(ad)“Solicit” means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless 
of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, suggesting, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in 
any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action.  The terms “Solicited,” “Soliciting” and 
“Solicitation” will have their correlative meanings.
(ae)“Transfer Restrictions” means restrictions that prohibit the sale, exchange, transfer, 
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposal (including through the use of 
any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by the Grantee, of an Award or any 
shares of Common Stock, cash or other property delivered in respect of an Award.
(af) “Vested” means, with respect to an Award, the portion of the Award that is not subject to 
a condition that the Grantee remain actively employed by the Firm in order for the Award to remain 
Outstanding.  The fact that an Award becomes Vested shall not mean or otherwise indicate that the 
Grantee has an unconditional or nonforfeitable right to such Award, and such Award shall remain subject 
to such terms, conditions and forfeiture provisions as may be provided for in the Plan or in the Award 
Agreement.
(ag)“Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 25 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
[One-Time][Year-End] Performance-Based RSU Award
This Award Agreement, together with The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive 
Plan (2021) (the “Plan”), governs your ____ award of performance-based RSUs (your “Award” or 
“PSUs”).  You should read carefully this entire document (including its [Appendix][Appendices]), 
the Award Statement and the Signature Card (together, the “Award Agreement”), as well as the 
other documentation presented to you in connection with acceptance of your Award (collectively, 
“Award Documentation”).
Acceptance
1.
You Must Decide Whether to Accept Your Award.  To be eligible for your Award, 
you must by the Acceptance Deadline: (a) open and activate an Account; (b) accept any Additional Terms 
presented to you as part of the Award Documentation; and (c) execute (including by electronic means) the 
accompanying Signature Card in accordance with its instructions.  By executing the Signature Card, you 
confirm your agreement to all of the terms of the Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and 
the Signature Card), as well as any Additional Terms. 
Documents that Govern Your Award; Definitions
2.
The Plan.  Your Award is granted under the Plan, and the Plan’s terms apply to, and are 
a part of, this Award Agreement.  The Plan and its Prospectus are included with the Award 
Documentation.
3.
Your Award Statement.  The accompanying Award Statement contains the number of 
PSUs awarded to you and some of your Award’s specific terms.  For example, it specifies the 
Performance Period and the Performance Goal[s] applicable to your Award.  It also contains the Vesting 
Date[s], the Determination Date and the Settlement Date[s] for your Award and [the] [any applicable] 
Transferability Date[s] for any Shares at Risk that may be delivered to you in respect of any Settlement 
Amount that you may earn.  The number of PSUs on your Award Statement is not necessarily the number 
of PSUs in respect of which the Settlement Amount will be earned, but is merely the basis for 
determining the amount (if any) that will be delivered to you. 
4.
Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein, including in the Definitions Appendix or 
any other Appendix, capitalized terms have the meanings provided in the Plan.  
Vesting of Your PSUs
5.
Vesting.  On each Vesting Date listed on your Award Statement, you will become Vested 
in the amount of Outstanding PSUs listed next to that date.  When a PSU becomes Vested, it means only 
that your continued active Employment is not required to earn delivery in respect of that PSU.  Vesting 
does not mean you have a non-forfeitable right to the Vested portion of your Award.  The terms of 
this Award Agreement (including conditions to delivery, satisfaction of the Performance Goal[s] 
and any applicable Transfer Restrictions) continue to apply to Vested PSUs, and you can still forfeit 
Vested PSUs and any Shares at Risk.
Performance Goal[s]
6.
Performance.  The Settlement Amount is dependent, and may vary based, on 
achievement of the Performance Goal[s] over the Performance Period.  On the Determination Date, the 
Firm will determine whether or not, and to what extent, the Performance Goal[s] for that Performance 
Period [has][have] been satisfied.  All your rights with respect to the Settlement Amount [(and any 
Dividend Equivalent Payments)] are dependent on the extent to which the Performance Goal[s] [is][are] 
achieved, and any rights to delivery in respect of your Outstanding PSUs immediately will terminate and 
EXHIBIT 10.43
no Settlement Amount will be delivered in respect of such PSUs upon the Committee’s determination, in 
its sole discretion, that the Performance Goal[s] [has][have] not been satisfied to the extent necessary to 
result in delivery in respect of the PSUs.  
Settlement Amount
7.
Settlement.  
(a)
In General.  Subject to satisfaction of the terms of your Award, including satisfaction of 
the Performance Goal[s], on [the] [each] Settlement Date [listed on your Award Statement], you will 
receive delivery (less applicable withholding as described in Paragraph 13(b)) of the [applicable portion 
of the] Settlement Amount [and payment of any Dividend Equivalent Payments] as further described in 
this Award Agreement and in your Award Statement.  Until such delivery [and payment], you have only 
the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc. with respect to either 
the PSUs or the Settlement Amount.  Without limiting the Committee’s authority under Section 1.3.2(h) 
of the Plan, the Firm may accelerate any Settlement Date by up to 30 days.   
(b)
Form of Delivery.  The Settlement Amount will be delivered in the form of Shares (by 
book entry credit to your Account).
(c)
Shares at Risk.  ___ percent of the Shares delivered to you in respect of the Settlement 
Amount will be subject to Transfer Restrictions until the [applicable] Transferability Date.  Any 
purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other 
disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions on Shares at Risk will be void.  
(d)
Release of Transfer Restrictions.  Within 30 Business Days after the [applicable] 
Transferability Date identified on your Award Statement, GS Inc. will remove the Transfer Restrictions 
on any Shares at Risk [in respect of the amount of Outstanding PSUs listed next to that date].  The 
Committee may select multiple dates within the 30-Business-Day period on which to remove Transfer 
Restrictions for all or a portion of the Shares at Risk with the same Transferability Date, and all such 
dates will be treated as a single Transferability Date for purposes of this Award.
(e)
[Voluntary Deferral of Settlement Date[s].  Subject to any procedures and agreement 
terms adopted by the Committee to govern any such election, at least 12 months prior to the last day of 
the original Performance Period set forth on the Award Statement (or such other date as may be permitted 
under Section 409A), you may make an irrevocable election to defer the Settlement Date[s] (and the 
delivery of the Settlement Amount [and payment of any Dividend Equivalent Payments, each] determined 
as of the Determination Date) until the fifth anniversary of the originally scheduled Settlement Date[s] set 
forth on the Award Statement (or such other date as may be permitted by Section 409A).  Any such 
election will be in accordance with the subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the 
Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section 409A.]   
Dividends
8.
[Dividend Equivalent Rights and] Dividends.  [To the extent described in your Award 
Statement, each PSU will include a Dividend Equivalent Right, which will be subject to the provisions of 
Section 2.8 of the Plan.  Accordingly, for each of your Outstanding PSUs with respect to which delivery 
is made under the Settlement Amount, you will be entitled to payments under Dividend Equivalent Rights 
equal to any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share for which the record date occurs 
on or after the Date of Grant.  The payment to you of amounts under Dividend Equivalent Rights (less 
applicable withholding as described in Paragraph 13(b)) is conditioned upon the delivery under the 
Settlement Amount in respect of the PSUs to which such Dividend Equivalent Rights relate, and you will 
have no right to receive any Dividend Equivalent Payments relating to PSUs for which you do not receive 
delivery under the Settlement Amount (including, without limitation, due to a failure to satisfy the 
Performance Goal[s]).  Dividend Equivalent Payments will be paid on the [applicable] Settlement Date.]  
[In addition, you][You] will be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend paid in 
respect of any Shares at Risk.  [The PSUs do not include Dividend Equivalent Rights.]
- 2 -
Forfeiture of Your Award
9.
How You May Forfeit Your Award.  This Paragraph 9 sets forth the events that result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your PSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of 
up to all other amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with 
Paragraph 10.  More than one event may apply, and in no case will the occurrence of one event limit the 
forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event.  Paragraph 11 
(relating to certain circumstances under which you will not forfeit your unvested PSUs upon Employment 
termination) and Paragraph 12 (relating to certain circumstances under which vesting and/or release of 
Transfer Restrictions may be accelerated) provide for exceptions to one or more provisions of this 
Paragraph 9.  
(a)
Unvested PSUs Forfeited if Your Employment Terminates.  If your Employment 
terminates for any reason or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed with the Firm (which 
includes off-premises notice periods, “garden leaves,” pay in lieu of notice or any other similar status), 
your rights to your Outstanding PSUs that are not Vested will terminate, and no Settlement Amount will 
be delivered in respect of such PSUs.
(b)
Vested and Unvested PSUs Forfeited Upon Certain Events.  If any of the following 
occurs, your rights to all of your Outstanding PSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate, and no 
Settlement Amount will be delivered in respect of such PSUs, as may be further described below:  
(i)
You Associate With a Covered Enterprise.  Except as prohibited by applicable 
law, you Associate With a Covered Enterprise during the Performance Period.
(ii)
You Solicit Clients or Employees, Interfere with Client or Employee 
Relationships or Participate in the Hiring of Employees.  Before the [applicable] Settlement Date and 
except as prohibited by applicable law, either:  
A.
(A) 
you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client 
to transact business with a Covered Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the 
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the 
Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign from the Firm, (4) 
Solicit any Selected Firm Personnel to apply for or accept employment (or other association) with any 
person or entity other than the Firm or (5) participate in the hiring of any Selected Firm Personnel by any 
person or entity other than the Firm (including, without limitation, participating in the identification of 
individuals for potential hire, and participating in any hiring decision), whether as an employee or 
consultant or otherwise, or 
B.
(B) 
Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into 
partnership, membership or similar status by any entity where you have, or will have, direct or indirect 
managerial responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel, unless the Committee determines that you 
were not involved in such Solicitation, hiring or acceptance.
(iii)
[GS Inc. Fails to Maintain the Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio.  Before the 
[applicable] Settlement Date, GS Inc. fails to maintain the required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” as 
defined under Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive 
business days.]
(iv)
[GS Inc. Is Determined to Be in Default.  Before the [applicable] Settlement 
Date, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the FDIC makes a written recommendation under 
Title II (Orderly Liquidation Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act for the appointment of the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a determination that GS Inc. is “in 
default” or “in danger of default.”]
- 3 -
(c)
PSUs and Shares at Risk Forfeited upon Certain Events.  If any of the following occurs 
(i) your rights to all of your Outstanding PSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate, and no Settlement 
Amount will be delivered in respect of such PSUs and (ii) your rights to any Shares at Risk will terminate 
and all such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, in each case, as may be further described below:
(i)
You Failed to Consider Risk.  You Failed to Consider Risk during ____. 
(ii)
Your Conduct Constitutes Cause.  Any event that constitutes Cause has occurred 
before the [applicable] Settlement Date for PSUs or the [applicable] Transferability Date for any Shares at 
Risk.
(iii)
You Breach an Obligation to the Firm.  The Committee determines that, before 
the [applicable] Settlement Date for PSUs or the [applicable] Transferability Date for any Shares at Risk, 
you Breached an Obligation to the Firm.
(iv)
You Do Not Provide Timely Certifications or Comply with Your Certifications.  
You fail to certify to GS Inc. that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award 
Agreement as required by Paragraph 13(d), or the Committee determines that you have failed to comply 
with a term of the Plan or this Award Agreement to which you have certified compliance.
(v)
You Do Not Follow Dispute Resolution Procedures.  You attempt to have any 
dispute, controversy or claim under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any manner that is not 
provided for by Paragraph 16 or Section 3.17 of the Plan, or you attempt to arbitrate a dispute, 
controversy or claim without first having exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance 
with Paragraph 13(c).  
(vi)
You Bring an Action that Results in a Determination that Any Award Agreement 
Term Is Invalid.  As a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any term of this Award 
Agreement is invalid. 
(vii)
You Receive Compensation in Respect of Your Award from Another Employer.  
Your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively Employed with the 
Firm and another entity grants you cash, equity or other property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, 
substitute for or otherwise in respect of any Outstanding PSUs or Shares at Risk; provided, however, that 
your rights will only be terminated in respect of the PSUs or Shares at Risk that are replaced, substituted 
for or otherwise considered by such other entity in making its grant.
(viii)
[Accounting Restatement Required Under Sarbanes-Oxley.  GS Inc. is required 
to prepare an accounting restatement due to GS Inc.’s material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, 
with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws as described in Section 304(a) of 
Sarbanes-Oxley; provided, however, that your rights will only be terminated in respect of PSUs or Shares 
at Risk to the same extent that would be required under Section 304(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley had you been a 
“chief executive officer” or “chief financial officer” of GS Inc. (regardless of whether you actually hold 
such position at the relevant time).]
(ix)
Accounting Restatement Required and Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy Applies.  
GS Inc. is required to prepare an “Accounting Restatement” as described in GS Inc.’s Policy for Recovery 
of Erroneously Awarded Compensation (the “Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy”); in each case if, and to the 
same extent as, required under the Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy.  For the avoidance of doubt, PSUs 
previously granted to you and Shares at Risk in respect of PSUs previously granted to you are also subject 
to forfeiture and clawback under this Paragraph 9(c)[(viii)/(ix)].
(d)
[Additional Forfeiture and Repayment Conditions for Material Risk Takers.  Since the 
Firm identified you as a Material Risk Taker (“MRT”) in ____, the EU and UK Material Risk Taker 
Appendix and/or the GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix (as applicable to you, the “MRT 
Appendix”) supplements this Paragraph 9.  The MRT Appendix sets forth additional events that (i) result 
in forfeiture of up to all of your PSUs and Shares at Risk and (ii) may require repayment to the Firm of up 
to all amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  
- 4 -
Your MRT classification, as defined in the MRT Appendix, was communicated to you separately.  If you 
are unsure of which classification(s) apply, you must contact HCM prior to accepting this Award.  The 
Firm’s records with respect to such classification(s) will be controlling as to whether the MRT Appendix 
applies to your Award.  The MRT classifications with their corresponding MRT Appendix are as follows:
MRT Classification
MRT Appendix
EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior 
Management and/or UK MRT
EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT and GSBE Senior Management
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management and 
any combination of EU MRT, GSAMI MRT, 
GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT
GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix and 
EU and UK Material Risk Taker 
Appendix]
(e)
Actions Pending Forfeiture.  In connection with any investigation as to whether any of 
the events that would result in forfeiture under the Plan[,] [or] this Paragraph 9 [or the MRT Appendix] 
have occurred, the Firm reserves the right to (i) suspend vesting of Outstanding PSUs[, any Dividend 
Equivalent Payments], delivery of the Settlement Amount or release of any Transfer Restrictions; (ii) 
deliver the Settlement Amount[,] [any Dividend Equivalent Payments] [or] dividends into an escrow 
account in accordance with Paragraph 13(e)(iii); or (iii) apply Transfer Restrictions to any Shares.
Repayment of Your Award
10.
When You May Be Required to Repay Your Award.  
(a)
Repayment Generally.  If the Committee determines that any term of this Award was not 
satisfied, you will be required, immediately upon demand therefor, to repay to the Firm the following:
(i)
Any Settlement Amount (including any Shares at Risk) for which the terms 
(including the terms for delivery) of the related PSUs were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.6.3 
of the Plan.
(ii)
Any Shares at Risk for which the terms (including the terms for the release of 
Transfer Restrictions) were not satisfied, in accordance with Section 2.5.3 of the Plan.
(iii)
[Any Shares that were delivered (but not subject to Transfer Restrictions) at the 
same time any Shares at Risk that are cancelled or required to be repaid were delivered.]
(iv)
[Any Dividend Equivalent Payments for which the terms were not satisfied 
(including any such payments made in respect of PSUs that are forfeited or any Settlement Amount that is 
required to be repaid), in accordance with Section 2.8.3 of the Plan.]
(v)
Any dividends paid in respect of any [delivered Shares (including] Shares at 
Risk[)] that are cancelled or required to be repaid.
(vi)
Any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations with respect 
to any PSUs, Settlement Amount (including Shares at Risk)[,] [and] dividend payments [and Dividend 
Equivalent Payments] that are forfeited or required to be repaid. 
(b)
Repayment Upon Materially Inaccurate Financial Statements.  If any delivery is made 
under this Award Agreement based on materially inaccurate financial statements (which includes, but is 
not limited to, statements of earnings, revenues or gains) or other materially inaccurate performance 
criteria, you will be obligated to repay to the Firm, immediately upon demand therefor, any excess 
amount delivered, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  For the avoidance of doubt, this 
Paragraph 10(b) includes any repayment required following an “Accounting Restatement” under the 
Dodd-Frank Clawback Policy.
- 5 -
(c)
[Repayment Upon Accounting Restatement Required Under Sarbanes-Oxley.  If an event 
described in Paragraph 9(c)(viii) (relating to a requirement under Sarbanes-Oxley that GS Inc. prepare an 
accounting restatement) occurs, any Settlement Amount (including Shares at Risk), dividend payments, 
[Dividend Equivalent Payments,] cash or other property delivered, paid or withheld in respect of this 
Award will be subject to repayment as described in Paragraph 10(a) to the same extent that would be 
required under Section 304(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley had you been a “chief executive officer” or “chief 
financial officer” of GS Inc. (regardless of whether you actually hold such position at the relevant time).]
Terminations of Employment 
11.
Treatment of Vested PSUs.  
(a)
Generally.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if your Employment terminates 
for any reason or you are otherwise no longer actively Employed with the Firm (which includes off-
premises notice periods, “garden leaves,” pay in lieu of notice or any other similar status), the 
Performance Goal[s] applicable to your Outstanding PSUs will continue to apply with respect to your 
Vested PSUs (and PSUs that are treated as Vested) and the determination of the Settlement Amount will 
continue to be subject to whether, and to what extent, the Performance Goal[s] [has][have] been achieved 
with respect to such PSUs, in each case, as provided in Paragraph 6.  All other terms of this Award 
Agreement, including the forfeiture and repayment events in Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT 
Appendix], continue to apply. 
(b)
[Retirement or] Extended Absence.  If your Employment terminates by [Retirement or] 
Extended Absence, then Paragraph 9(a) will not apply, and your Outstanding PSUs that are not Vested 
will be treated as Vested and, on that basis, be subject to Paragraph 11(a).  However, your rights to any 
Outstanding PSUs that are treated as Vested by this Paragraph 11(b) will terminate and no Settlement 
Amount will be delivered in respect of such PSUs if you Associate With a Covered Enterprise during the 
Performance Period, as described in Paragraph 9(b)(i).  You acknowledge and agree that if any portion of 
the preceding sentence is unenforceable under applicable law, or is found to be unenforceable, then the 
entirety of this Paragraph 11(b) is inapplicable to you and your rights to any Outstanding PSUs that were 
treated as Vested, or otherwise would have been treated as Vested, will be cancelled in accordance with 
Paragraph 9(a).   
(c)
[Qualified Termination.  If the Firm terminates your Employment solely by reason of a 
Qualified Termination and you execute a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay 
any associated tax liability in the form the Firm prescribes, then Paragraph 9(a) will not apply, and a pro 
rata portion of your Outstanding PSUs (based on the portion of the Performance Period during which you 
were Employed) will become Vested and, on that basis, be subject to Paragraph 11(a).  For the avoidance 
of doubt, your rights to any Outstanding PSUs will be terminated and no Settlement Amount will be 
delivered in respect thereof if you Associate With a Covered Enterprise during the Performance Period, as 
described in Paragraph 9(b)(i).]   
12.
Accelerated Vesting and/or Release of Transfer Restrictions in the Event of [a 
Change in Control,] [a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control] [or] Death.  In the event 
of [a Change in Control][,] your [Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control] [or] death, [each] as 
described below, your Outstanding PSUs will become Vested and Paragraph 9(a) will not apply; any 
delivery of your Settlement Amount and Shares at Risk will be treated as described in this Paragraph 12, 
and[, except as set forth in Paragraph 12(a),] all other terms of this Award Agreement, including the other 
forfeiture and repayment events in Paragraphs 9 and 10 [and the MRT Appendix], continue to apply.  [In 
each case, the Performance Goal[s] applicable to your Outstanding PSUs will continue to apply and the 
determination of the Settlement Amount will continue to be subject to whether, and to what extent, the 
Performance Goal[s] [has][have] been achieved, in each case, as provided in Paragraph 6.]
(a)
[Change in Control.  
(i)
In the event of a Change in Control which would result in none of GS Inc., its 
successors (including any surviving or acquiring entity or its affiliates) or affiliates being listed or 
publicly traded on any national securities exchange (“Delisting Change in Control”): (A) the last day of 
- 6 -
the Performance Period will be deemed to be the effective date of the Change in Control, (B) the 
Determination Date will be as soon as practicable after the effective date of the Change in Control and (C) 
the Settlement Date[s] will occur as soon as practicable following the Determination Date, but no later 
than March 15 coinciding with the last day of the applicable “short-term deferral” period described in 
Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4).  Any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply to your Shares at Risk, and the 
forfeiture events in Paragraph 9 will not apply to your Shares at Risk.
(ii)
If the Change in Control is not a Delisting Change in Control described in 
Paragraph 12(a)(i) and if your Employment terminates when you meet the requirements of a Qualifying 
Termination After a Change in Control, then (i) Paragraph 9(a) will not apply and your PSUs that are not 
Vested will become Vested, and (ii) you will receive delivery of the Settlement Amount [and payment of 
the Dividend Equivalent Payments] on the [applicable] Settlement Date that would have otherwise been 
made pursuant to Paragraph 6, and (iii) any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply to your Shares at 
Risk, and the forfeiture events in Paragraph 9 will not apply to your Shares at Risk.] 
(b)
[You Have a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control.  If your Employment 
terminates when you meet the requirements of a Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control, (i) 
you will, on the [applicable] Settlement Date, receive delivery of the Settlement Amount [and payment of 
the Dividend Equivalent Payments] that[, in each case,] would have otherwise been made pursuant to 
Paragraph 6, and (ii) any Transfer Restrictions will cease to apply to your Shares at Risk.  In addition, the 
forfeiture events in Paragraph 9 [(except the MRT Appendix)] will not apply to your Shares at Risk.] 
(c)
Death.  If you die, [as soon as practicable] after receipt of any documentation as may be 
requested by the Committee or a SIP Administrator, (i) your Account will receive delivery of the 
Settlement Amount [and payment of the Dividend Equivalent Payments] on the [applicable] Settlement 
Date that[, in each case,] would have otherwise been made pursuant to Paragraph 6, and (ii) any Transfer 
Restrictions will cease to apply to your Shares at Risk.]
Other Terms And Conditions of Your Award
13.
Additional Terms, Conditions and Consents.
(a)
You Will Be Required to Accept Additional Terms.  In addition to the terms of the 
Award Agreement, the Award Documentation includes other contractual terms that you must accept as a 
condition of the Award (the “Additional Terms”).  By accepting the Award and executing the Signature 
Card, you agree to any such Additional Terms applicable to you as set forth in the Award Documentation, 
which will include but are not limited to the following:  
(i)
Notice Period Policy.  You must agree to abide by the terms, as applicable to 
you, of the Policy on Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based Awards and Other 
Deferred Compensation (the “Notice Period Policy”).
(ii)
Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters.  You must 
agree to the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which imposes 
obligations in addition to those contained in Paragraph 16. 
(iii)
APAC Restrictive Covenants.  If you are employed by the Firm in the Asia-
Pacific Region (e.g., Australia, the People’s Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, Taiwan), you must 
agree to the APAC Restrictive Covenants Agreement.
(iv)
Role-, Business- or Division-Specific Agreements.  If applicable to you, you 
must accept Additional Terms related to your specific role, business unit or division as set forth in the 
Award Documentation.
(b)
You Must Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding Requirements.  Delivery of the Settlement 
Amount is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with 
- 7 -
Section 3.2 of the Plan, which includes the Firm deducting or withholding amounts from any payment or 
distribution to you.  In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, 
may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, state, local, foreign or other 
tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant, Vesting or delivery of this 
Award by requiring you to choose between remitting the amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction 
or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm’s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you 
under this Award.  In no event, however, does this Paragraph 13(b) give you any discretion to determine 
or affect the timing of the delivery of the Settlement Amount or the timing of payment of tax obligations.
(c)
You Must Comply with Applicable Deadlines and Procedures to Appeal.  If you disagree 
with a determination made by the Committee, the SIP Administrators or any of their delegates or 
designees relating to the Plan or the Award Agreement and you wish to appeal such determination, you 
must submit a written request to the Committee for review within 180 days after the determination at 
issue.  You must exhaust your internal administrative remedies (i.e., submit your appeal and wait for 
resolution of that appeal) before seeking to resolve a dispute, controversy or claim through arbitration 
pursuant to Paragraph 16 and Section 3.17 of the Plan.
(d)
You May Be Required to Certify Compliance with Award Terms; You Are Responsible 
for Providing Updated Address and Contact Information After Your Departure from the Firm.  If your 
Employment terminates while you continue to hold PSUs or Shares at Risk, the Firm may require you to 
provide certifications of your compliance with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  
You understand and agree that (i) your contact information as reflected in the Firm’s personnel records at 
the time any certification is requested will be deemed current; (ii) it is your responsibility to inform HCM 
of any changes to your contact information to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, 
regardless of whether your contact information is provided to another part of the Firm; and (iii) you are 
responsible for contacting the Firm to obtain such certification materials if not received.  Your failure to 
return properly completed certification materials by the specified deadline (including because you did not 
provide HCM with updated contact information) will result in the forfeiture of all of your PSUs and any 
Shares at Risk and subject previously delivered amounts to repayment under Paragraph 10. 
(e)
You Agree to Other Terms, Conditions and Consents.  By accepting this Award you 
understand and agree that:
(i)
Amounts May Be Rounded to Avoid Fractional Shares.  PSUs that become 
Vested and any amounts delivered in respect of the Settlement Amount, including Shares at Risk, may be 
rounded to avoid fractional Shares.
(ii)
Firm May Deliver Cash or Other Property in Respect of the Settlement Amount.  
In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the sole discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or 
any portion of the Settlement Amount, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under the 
Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to delivery of the Settlement Amount 
will include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other property.
(iii)
Firm May Deliver Your Award into an Escrow Account.  The Firm may establish 
and maintain an escrow account on such terms (which may include your executing any documents related 
to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such account) as it may deem necessary or appropriate, 
and the Settlement Amount may initially be delivered, and any [Dividend Equivalent Payments and] 
dividends may initially be paid, into and held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has 
received such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any 
other conditions or restrictions on deliveries required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied.
(iv)
Firm May Affix Legends and Place Stop Orders on Shares.  GS Inc. may affix to 
Certificates representing Shares any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable 
(including to reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under the Additional Terms, a separate 
agreement or any Firm policy applicable to you).  GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop 
order against any legended Shares.  For the avoidance of doubt, Shares as used herein includes, without 
limitation, Restricted Shares. 
- 8 -
(v)
You Authorize the Firm to Register, in Its or Its Designee’s Name, Any 
Restricted Shares and Sell, Assign or Transfer Any Forfeited Restricted Shares.  You are granting to the 
Firm the full power and authority to register any Restricted Shares in its or its designee’s name and 
authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell, assign or transfer any Restricted Shares if you forfeit your 
Restricted Shares.
(vi)
You Agree to Certain Consents as a Condition to the Award.  You have expressly 
consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan, including the Firm’s supplying to any 
third-party recordkeeper of the Plan or other person such personal information of yours as the Committee 
deems advisable to administer the Plan, and you agree to provide any additional consents that the 
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable.
(vii)
You Are Subject to the Firm’s Policies, Rules and Procedures.  You are subject 
to the Firm’s policies in effect from time to time concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging 
Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards (including, without limitation, the “Firmwide 
Policy with Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities and GS Equity Awards” or any 
successor policies), and confidential or proprietary information, and you will effect sales of Shares in 
accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time (which may include, 
without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are 
executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the 
Firm).
(viii)
You Are Responsible for Costs Associated with Your Award.  You will be 
responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with your Award, including 
those related to the sale of Shares.
(ix)
You Will Be Deemed to Represent Your Compliance with All the Terms of Your 
Award if You Accept Delivery of, or Sell, Shares.  You will be deemed to have represented and certified 
that you have complied with all of the terms of the Plan and this Award Agreement when any Settlement 
Amount [and Dividend Equivalent Payments] [is][are] delivered to you and you request the sale of Shares 
following the release of Transfer Restrictions on any Shares at Risk.
(x)
You Agree that Covered Persons Will Not Have Liability.  In addition to and 
without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor any 
Covered Person will have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or omitted in 
respect of this or any other Award. 
14.
Non-transferability.  Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the 
limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan will apply to this Award.  Any purported sale, exchange, 
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition (including 
through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntary or involuntary, in violation of the 
provisions of this Paragraph 14 or Section 3.5 of the Plan will be void.  
15.
Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 18(d), the obligation to deliver the 
Settlement Amount, pay dividends [or Dividend Equivalent Payments] or release any Transfer 
Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the 
Firm’s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any 
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement. 
Arbitration, Choice of Forum and Governing Law
16.
Arbitration; Choice of Forum.
(a)
By accepting this award, you are indicating that you understand and agree that the 
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Section 3.17 of the Plan will apply to this 
Award to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.  These provisions, which are expressly 
incorporated herein by reference, provide among other things that any dispute, controversy or 
- 9 -
claim between the Firm and you arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or this Award 
Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration, pursuant to the terms more fully set forth in 
Section 3.17 of the Plan; provided that nothing herein shall preclude you from filing a charge with 
or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by any governmental authority, 
including but not limited to the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and a state 
or local human rights agency, as well as law enforcement.
(b)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement includes an agreement to arbitrate claims 
on a collective, class or representative basis.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider class, collective or representative claims, to order 
consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief other than on an individual basis to the 
individual claimant involved.
(c)
Notwithstanding any applicable forum rules to the contrary, to the extent there is a 
question of enforceability of the Plan or this Award Agreement arising from a challenge to the arbitrator’s 
jurisdiction or to the arbitrability of a claim, it will be decided by a court and not an arbitrator.
(d)
Prior to filing any arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16(a), you must first exhaust 
your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c), which includes awaiting the 
Committee’s final determination of any such appeal.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no 
arbitrator will have the authority to consider any dispute, controversy or claim as to which you have not 
first exhausted your internal administrative remedies in accordance with Paragraph 13(c).
(e)
The Federal Arbitration Act governs interpretation and enforcement of all arbitration 
provisions under the Plan and this Award Agreement, and all arbitration proceedings thereunder.
(f)
Nothing in the Plan or this Award Agreement creates a substantive right to bring a claim 
under U.S. Federal, state, or local employment laws.
(g)
By accepting your Award, you irrevocably appoint each General Counsel of GS Inc., or 
any person whom the General Counsel of GS Inc. designates, as your agent for service of process in 
connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or any 
Award which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.17.1 of the Plan, who shall promptly 
advise you of any such service of process.
(h)
As a condition of your Award, you also must accept the terms of the Agreement 
Regarding Arbitration of Employment-Related Matters, which is included among the Additional 
Terms described in Paragraph 13(a) and sets forth obligations independent of this Paragraph 16.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the obligation to exhaust your internal remedies described in 
Paragraph 13(c) and Paragraph 16(d) only applies to disputes, controversies or claims relating to 
the Plan or the Award Agreement. 
17.
Governing Law.  This Award will be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Certain Tax Provisions
18.
Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this 
Paragraph 18 apply to you only if you are a U.S. taxpayer.
(a)
This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are intended and 
will be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements applicable to, or the 
conditions for exemption from treatment as, 409A Deferred Compensation), whether by reason of short-
term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions.  The Committee will have full authority to give 
effect to this intent.  To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or 
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and 
this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement will govern, and in the case of any 
- 10 -
conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 18 and the other provisions of this Award 
Agreement, this Paragraph 18 will govern.
(b)
Settlement will not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions or 
restrictions on settlement in respect of your PSUs required by this Award Agreement (including [those 
specified in Paragraph 11 (execution of waiver and release of claims agreement to pay associated tax 
liability) and] the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied.  To the 
extent that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for short-term deferral 
treatment under Section 409A, settlement in respect of such portion will occur by the March 15 
coinciding with the last day of the applicable “short-term deferral” period described in Reg. 
1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for settlement to be within the short-term deferral exception unless, in order to 
permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on settlement to be satisfied, the Committee elects, 
pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 
409A, to delay settlement to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later date as may be 
permitted under Section 409A, including Reg. 1.409A-3(d).  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Award 
includes a “series of installment payments” as described in Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii), your right to the 
series of installment payments will be treated as a right to a series of separate payments and not as a right 
to a single payment.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 13(e) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the 
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any delivery or payment [(including in the form of Shares 
at Risk or other property)] that the Firm may make in respect of your PSUs will not have the effect of 
deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on 
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with 
respect to the payment or delivery that would otherwise have been made (unless the Committee elects a 
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under 
Section 409A, including and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election provisions of Section 
409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).
(d)
Paragraph 15 and Section 3.4 of the Plan will not apply to Awards that are 409A 
Deferred Compensation except to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
(e)
Settlement in respect of any portion of the Award may be made, if and to the extent 
elected by the Committee, later than the [applicable] Settlement Date or other date or period specified 
hereinabove (but, in the case of any Award that constitutes 409A Deferred Compensation, only to the 
extent that the later payment or delivery, as applicable, is permitted under Section 409A).  
(f)
You understand and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of any taxes 
and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A, but in no event will you be permitted to designate, directly or 
indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.
Committee Authority, Amendment, Construction and Regulatory Reporting
19.
Committee Authority.  The Committee has the authority to determine, in its sole 
discretion, that any event triggering forfeiture or repayment of your Award will not apply, to limit the 
forfeitures and repayments that result under Paragraphs 9 and 10 and to remove any Transfer Restrictions 
before the [applicable] Transferability Date.  [In addition, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may 
determine whether Paragraph 11(b)[ or (c)] will apply upon a termination of Employment.]
20.
Amendment.  The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms of this 
Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect; provided that, notwithstanding the 
foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such amendment will materially 
adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement without your consent; and 
provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement and the 
Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan.  A modification that impacts the tax 
consequences of this Award or the timing of delivery of the Settlement Amount will not be an amendment 
that materially adversely affects your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement.  Any 
amendment of this Award Agreement will be in writing.
- 11 -
21.
Construction, Headings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing 
the singular number include the plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders 
and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and “including” will be deemed to be followed by the words 
“without limitation.”  The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only and 
are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.  References in this Award 
Agreement to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other 
Plan provision.
22.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities; Protected Communications.  
In accordance with applicable law, nothing in this Award Agreement (including the forfeiture and 
repayment provisions in Paragraphs 9 and 10) or the Plan prevents you from providing information you 
reasonably believe to be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, 
administrative, or other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making 
other disclosures that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or 
participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as 
the SEC, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state or local human rights agency 
(e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City Commission on Human Rights, 
the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement (e.g., the state Attorney General and 
the U.S. Department of Justice).  Similarly, nothing in this Award Agreement or the Plan prohibits you 
from engaging in protected concerted activity pursuant to applicable law protecting such activity, 
including discussing wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of your employment; or speaking with 
your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations.  In addition, nothing in this Award 
Agreement or the Plan limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting channels that are 
available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation. 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly 
executed and delivered as of the Date of Grant.
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
- 13 -
[EU and UK Material Risk Taker Appendix
Qualitative Overlay Reduction
(g)
In addition to and without limiting the Firm’s rights under the forfeiture and repayment 
provisions set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 10 or in the “Forfeiture and Repayment” section below, the 
Committee may determine to reduce the Settlement Amount as described in the section entitled 
“Qualitative Overlay Reduction” in the Award Statement.  
Forfeiture and Repayment
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your PSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other amounts 
previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with the 
events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply, in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e).  
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider certain factors to 
determine whether and what portion of your Award will terminate, including the reason for the Loss 
Event or Risk Event, as well as the extent to which you participated in the Loss Event or Risk Event and 
your compensation for the Firm’s ____ fiscal year may or may not have been adjusted to take into 
account the risk associated with the Loss Event, Risk Event, your Serious Misconduct or the Serious 
Misconduct of a Supervised Employee. Your compensation may be adjusted for the year in which the 
Loss Event, Risk Event, your Serious Misconduct or a Supervised Employee’s Serious Misconduct is 
discovered.
(a)
A Loss Event Occurs Prior to Delivery.  If a Loss Event occurs prior to the delivery of 
any portion of the Settlement Amount, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your PSUs which are 
scheduled to deliver on the next Settlement Date immediately following the date that the Loss Event is 
identified (or, if not practicable, then the next following Settlement Date) will terminate, and no Shares 
will be delivered in respect of such PSUs.  
(i)
“Loss Event” means (A) an annual pre-tax loss at GS Inc. or (B) annual negative 
revenues in one or more reporting segments as disclosed in the Firm’s Form 10-K other than the Asset 
&Wealth Management segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by 
the Firm), or annual negative revenues in the Asset & Wealth Management segment (or any successor or 
equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by the Firm) of $5 billion or more, provided in either 
case that you are employed in a business within such reporting segment.
(b)
A Risk Event Occurs On or Before the Applicable End Date.  If a Risk Event occurs on 
or before the Applicable End Date, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your PSUs will 
terminate and no Settlement Amount will be delivered in respect of such PSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a 
portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled and (iii) you will be 
obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the 
Fair Market Value of the Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award (without 
reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as of (A) the 
date the Risk Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Risk Event” means there occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital 
from a reportable operational risk event determined in accordance with the firmwide Reporting and 
Operational Risk Events Policy (or any successor policy).  
- 14 -
(c)
You Engage in Serious Misconduct On or Before the Applicable Date.  If you engage in 
Serious Misconduct during the period beginning on the applicable Transferability Date through the 
Applicable End Date, you will be obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount 
not in excess of the greater of the Fair Market Value of the Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered 
in respect of the Award (without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other 
obligations) determined as of (i) the date the Serious Misconduct occurred and (ii) the date that the 
repayment request is made.  
(i)
“Serious Misconduct” means that you engage in conduct that the Firm 
reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary termination of 
employment under applicable employment law.  
(d)
A Supervised Employee Engages in Serious Misconduct.  If the Committee determines 
that it is appropriate to hold you accountable in whole or in part for Serious Misconduct related to 
compliance, control or risk that occurred during the Firm’s ____ fiscal year by a Supervised Employee, 
your rights in respect of all or a portion of your PSUs will terminate and no Settlement Amount will be 
delivered in respect of such PSUs and your rights to all or a portion of any Shares at Risk will terminate 
and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled. 
(i)
“Supervised Employee” means an individual with respect to whom the 
Committee determines you had supervisory responsibility as a result of direct or indirect reporting lines or 
your management responsibility for an office, division or business. 
(e)
Certain Definitions.  
(i)
“Applicable End Date” means [__________][, with respect to each 
classification in the table below, the following:
Classification
Applicable End Date
EU MRT
__________
GSAMI MRT
__________
GSAMI Senior Management
__________
UK MRT
__________]
(ii)
“EU MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a (A) Material Risk Taker in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of the Alternative 
Investment Fund Managers Directive or Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable 
Securities V (“AIFMD-UCITS”), including “Identified Staff” under AIFMD-UCITS (“AIFMD-UCITS 
Identified Staff”), as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, B.V. 
(“GSAMBV”), Goldman Sachs Asset Management Belgium, S.A. (“GSAM Belgium”) or Goldman 
Sachs Towarzystwo Funduszy Inwestycyjnych S.A. (“GS TFI”), including any branch of subsidiary 
thereof (collectively, “GSAM Europe”), whether or not GSAM Europe has employed such individual; or 
(B) an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the Firm with respect to Goldman Sachs 
Paris Inc. et Cie in accordance with the applicable remuneration rules of either the Capital Requirements 
Directive V or the Investment Firms Regulation/Investment Firms Directive, as a Material Risk Taker 
(“GSPIC MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSPIC Senior Management”).  EU MRT does not include 
AIFMD-UCITS Identified Staff of Goldman Sachs Asset Management Fund Services Ltd. 
(“GSAMFSL”).
(iii)
“GSAMI MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified 
by the Firm as a GSAMI Material Risk Taker in accordance with the remuneration code under the UK 
Investment Firms Prudential Regime (“IFPR”) as applicable to the business operations of Goldman Sachs 
Asset Management International Ltd. (“GSAMI”).  
- 15 -
(iv)
“GSAMI Senior Management” means an individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a GSAMI Senior Management in accordance with the remuneration code 
under the IFPR as applicable to the business operations of GSAMI.  
(v)
“UK MRT” means an individual who, at any point in ____, was classified by the 
Firm as a Material Risk Taker (including UK Risk Managers and UK PRA Senior Managers) in 
accordance with the remuneration codes applicable to dual-regulated UK firms.
(vi)
For purposes of these definitions, if during ____ you were classified by the Firm 
as any combination of EU MRT and GSAMI MRT, GSAMI Senior Management or UK MRT then your 
classification in the table above is EU MRT; any combination of GSAMI MRT or GSAMI Senior 
Management and UK MRT then your classification in the table above is UK MRT; or as a combination of 
GSAMI MRT and GSAMI Senior Management then your classification in the table above is GSAMI 
Senior Management.
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Appendix 
(including your refusal to remit payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with 
Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of 
such dispute, controversy or claim (including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).] 
- 16 -
[GSBE Material Risk Taker Appendix
This Appendix supplements Paragraph 9 and sets forth additional events that result in forfeiture of up to 
all of your RSUs and any Shares at Risk and may require repayment to the Firm of up to all other 
amounts previously delivered or paid to you under your Award in accordance with Paragraph 10.  As with 
the events described in Paragraph 9, more than one event may apply; in no case will the occurrence of one 
event limit the forfeiture and repayment obligations as a result of the occurrence of any other event; and 
the Firm reserves the same rights in connection with any investigation of whether any of the events that 
result in forfeiture under this Appendix have occurred as set forth in Paragraph 9(e). 
With respect to the events described in this Appendix, the Committee will consider all relevant factors in 
making the decision, in its sole discretion as to whether an Adjustment Event or Actionable Misconduct 
have occurred.  
This Appendix applies to all RSUs in your Award if you are a GSBE MRT or GSBE Senior Management.
(a)
An Adjustment Event Occurs with Respect to ____.  If an Adjustment Event occurs with 
respect to ____, (i) your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will 
terminate and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs, (ii) your rights to all or a portion 
of any Shares at Risk will terminate and such Shares at Risk will be cancelled, and (iii) you will be 
obligated immediately upon demand therefor to pay the Firm an amount not in excess of the greater of the 
Fair Market Value of the RSU Shares (plus any dividend payments) delivered in respect of the Award 
(without reduction for any amount applied to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations) determined as 
of (A) the date the Adjustment Event occurred and (B) the date that the repayment request is made.
(i)
“Adjustment Event” means that one of the following has occurred:
A.
you significantly contributed to, or were responsible for, any conduct that 
resulted in a loss of 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc.;
B.
a material regulatory sanction for the Firm comprising one or more of the 
following: 
1.
a moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g of the German Banking Act, 
2.
a measure in case of danger pursuant to sec. 46 of the German 
Banking Act, 
3.
the revocation of appointment of a manager pursuant to sec. 36 
German Banking Act, 
4.
a fine pursuant to sec. 56 of the German Banking Act or a 
threatened penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment 
amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of GS Inc., 
5.
the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 of the 
German Banking Act, 
6.
 an order to increase the capital requirements Goldman Sachs 
Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 
of the German Banking Act, 
- 17 -
7.
a measure in case of organizational deficiencies, 
8.
a comparable regulatory order, or
9.
a material supervisory measure; or
C.
you acted in serious violation of relevant external or internal rules with 
respect to suitability and conduct, provided that a violation is considered serious if it 
suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant to sec. 626 German 
Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct pursuant to sec. 1 German 
Termination Protection Act. 
(b)
You Engage in Actionable Misconduct.  If the Committee determines that you engaged in 
Actionable Misconduct, which if known (or if known, adequately considered) would have resulted in a 
reduction to your annual variable compensation when your variable compensation for that year was 
determined, your rights in respect of all or a portion of your RSUs (whether or not Vested) will terminate 
and no RSU Shares will be delivered in respect of such RSUs.
(i)
“Actionable Misconduct” means either or both of:
A.
“Unethical behavior” within the meaning of the IVV;
B.
“Breach of duty” within the meaning of the IVV. 
(ii)
“IVV” means the German Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions 
(Institutsvergütungsverordnung) and applicable guidance from the German Federal Financial Supervisory 
Authority (BaFin) or the European Central Bank.
(c)
Scope of Appendix.  This Appendix applies to any individual who, at any point in ____, 
was classified by the Firm as a Material Risk Taker (“GSBE MRT”) or Senior Management (“GSBE 
Senior Management”) in connection with the business operations of GSBE or any branch or subsidiary 
thereof, whether or not GSBE or any branch or subsidiary thereof employed such individual.  
Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan, this Award Agreement or any other agreement or arrangement 
you may have with the Firm, the parties agree that to the extent that there is any dispute, controversy or 
claim arising out of or relating to the payment required by this Appendix (including your refusal to remit 
payment) the parties will submit to arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 16 of this Award Agreement 
and Section 3.17 of the Plan as the sole means of resolution of such dispute, controversy or claim 
(including the recovery by the Firm of the payment amount).]
- 18 -
Definitions Appendix
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the following meanings.
(a) “409A Deferred Compensation” means a “deferral of compensation” or “deferred 
compensation” as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A.  
(b) “Acceptance Deadline” means the date communicated to you by the Firm as the deadline 
to accept your Award.  The Acceptance Deadline will be no less than 14 days after the Award 
Documentation is first made available to you in full.  To the extent you are entitled to a translation in 
accordance with the Language Notice for Equity Awards provided to you as part of the Award 
Documentation, the Acceptance Deadline will be extended by the time required to furnish you with any 
such translation.
(c) “Associate With a Covered Enterprise” means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or 
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Covered Enterprise or (ii) associate 
in any capacity (including association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or 
advisor) with any Covered Enterprise.  Associate With a Covered Enterprise may include, as determined 
in the discretion of the Committee, (i) becoming the subject of any publicly available announcement or 
report of a pending or future association with a Covered Enterprise and (ii) unpaid associations, including 
an association in contemplation of future employment.  “Association With a Covered Enterprise” will 
have its correlative meaning.  
(d) “Breached an Obligation to the Firm” means that you failed to meet, in any respect, any 
obligation under any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with your 
Employment or this Award (including any applicable Additional Terms); including, without limitation, 
any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders’ agreement relating to the Firm.  Your failure 
to pay or reimburse the Firm, on demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm will constitute (i) failure to 
meet an obligation you have under an agreement, regardless of whether such obligation arises under a 
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause.
(e) “Committee” means the Compensation Committee unless otherwise determined by the 
Board; provided, however, that: (i) the authority of the Compensation Committee to administer the Plan 
and the Award may be granted or delegated to the SIP Committee, in which case “Committee” means the 
SIP Committee when acting pursuant to such a grant or delegation; (ii) to the extent the Board determines 
it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to qualify for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) 
or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act, “Committee” shall be a committee or 
subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is a “non-employee 
director” within the meaning of Rule 16b-3; and (iii) to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate 
for the compensation realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered “performance based” 
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, “Committee” shall be a committee or subcommittee of 
the Board composed of two or more members, each of whom is an “outside director” within the meaning 
of Code Section 162(m).  
(f) “Compensation Committee” means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(g) “Covered Enterprise” means a Competitive Enterprise and any other existing or planned 
business enterprise that:  (i) offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer 
products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by the Firm or that the Firm 
- 19 -
reasonably expects to offer (“Firm Products or Services”) or (ii) engages in, holds itself out as engaging in 
or reasonably may be expected to engage in any other activity that is the same as or similar to any 
financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to engage (“Firm 
Activities”).  For the avoidance of doubt, Firm Activities include any activity that requires the same or 
similar skills as any financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm reasonably expects to 
engage, irrespective of whether any such financial activity is in furtherance of an advisory, agency, 
proprietary or fiduciary undertaking.
The enterprises covered by this definition include enterprises that offer, hold themselves out 
as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services, or engage in, hold 
themselves out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities directly, as 
well as those that do so indirectly by ownership or control (e.g., by owning, being owned by or by being 
under common ownership with an enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be 
expected to offer Firm Products or Services or that engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or 
reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities).  The definition of Covered Enterprise includes, 
solely by way of example, any enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be 
expected to offer any product or service, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may 
be expected to engage in any activity, in any case, associated with investment banking; public or private 
finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than you or your family 
members (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any type of proprietary investing or trading); private 
wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial cash management; consumer, digital or 
commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge fund management; insurance or 
reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or securities, futures, commodities, energy, 
derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance, settlement or trading.  
An enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products 
or Services, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in 
Firm Activities is a Covered Enterprise, irrespective of whether the enterprise is a customer, client or 
counterparty of the Firm or is otherwise associated with the Firm and, because the Firm is a global 
enterprise, irrespective of where the Covered Enterprise is physically located.
(h) “Determination Date” means the date specified on your Award Statement as the date on 
which the Committee will determine whether or not, and to what extent, the Performance Goal[s] 
[was][were] achieved for the Performance Period.  
(i) [“Dividend Equivalent Payments” means any payments made in respect of Dividend 
Equivalent Rights.]
(j) “FDIC” means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor thereto.
(k) “Failed to Consider Risk” means that you participated (or otherwise oversaw or were 
responsible for, depending on the circumstances, another individual’s participation) in the structuring or 
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the 
purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the 
risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly 
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result 
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to 
be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system.  This 
definition is not limited to financial risks and is designed to encourage the consideration of the full range 
of risks associated with activities (e.g., legal, compliance or reputational).  This definition also does not 
- 20 -
require that a material adverse impact actually occur, but, rather, may be triggered if it is determined that 
there is a reasonable expectation of such an impact.
(l) “HCM” means the Firm’s Human Capital Management Division or its successor.
(m) “Performance Goal[s]” means the performance goal[s] determined by the Committee that 
[is][are] specified on your Award Statement.  
(n) “Performance Period” means the performance period determined by the Committee that 
is specified on your Award Statement.
(o) [“Qualified Termination” means the termination of your Employment by the Firm where 
none of the forfeiture and repayment events described in Paragraphs 9 and 10 has occurred.  No 
Employment termination that you initiate, including any purported “constructive termination,” a 
“termination for good reason” or similar concepts, can be a Qualified Termination.]
(p) “Qualifying Termination After a Change in Control” means that the Firm terminates your 
Employment other than for Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, in each case, 
within 18 months following a Change in Control.
(q) [“Sarbanes-Oxley” means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended.]
(r) “SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(s) “Selected Firm Personnel” means any individual who is or in the three months preceding 
the conduct prohibited by Paragraph 9(b)(ii) was (i) a Firm employee or consultant with whom you 
personally worked while employed by the Firm, (ii) a Firm employee or consultant who, at any time 
during the year preceding the date of the termination of your Employment, worked in the same division in 
which you worked or (iii) an Advisory Director, a Managing Director (Participating or Extended) or a 
Senior Advisor of the Firm. 
(t) “Settlement Amount” means the amount deliverable to you in respect of your PSUs, 
which will be determined as described in the Award Statement.
(u) “Settlement Date” means each date specified on your Award Statement as the date on 
which the Settlement Amount will be delivered, provided, unless the Committee determines otherwise, 
such date is during a Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day 
of the first Window Period beginning after such date.
(v) “Share” means a share of Common Stock.
(w) “Shares at Risk” means Shares subject to Transfer Restrictions.
(x) “Signature Card” means the document and/or website presented to you with your Award 
that you are required to execute (including electronically) to indicate your acceptance of the Award, the 
Award Agreement (including the Award Statement and the terms contained in the Signature Card) and 
Additional Terms applicable to you, as well your receipt of the Award Documentation.
(y) “Transferability Date” means the first trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the 
month and year specified on your Award Statement as a transferability date; provided, however, that if 
- 21 -
there is no trading day in a Window Period that occurs in the specified month and year, the 
Transferability Date will be the first trading day in the subsequent Window Period.
- 22 -
The following capitalized terms are used in this Award Agreement with the meanings that are 
assigned to them in the Plan.
(a) “Account” means any brokerage account, custody account or similar account, as 
approved or required by GS Inc. from time to time, into which shares of Common Stock, cash or other 
property in respect of an Award are delivered.
(b) “Award Statement” means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.
(c) “Board” means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
(d) “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which 
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by Federal law or executive order to be 
closed.
(e) “Cause” means (i) the Grantee’s conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty 
or nolo contendere (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving 
fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, 
counterfeiting or extortion, or (B) on a felony charge, or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses 
(A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations, (ii) the Grantee’s engaging in any 
conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory 
disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act), (iii) the Grantee’s willful failure to perform the 
Grantee’s duties to the Firm, (iv) the Grantee’s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules 
or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities 
exchange or association of which the Firm is a member, (v) the Grantee’s violation of any Firm policy 
concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or the Grantee’s material 
violation of any other Firm policy as in effect from time to time, (vi) the Grantee’s engaging in any act or 
making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the 
name, reputation or business interests of the Firm or (vii) the Grantee’s engaging in any conduct 
detrimental to the Firm.  The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the 
Committee in its sole discretion and, in such case, the Committee also may, but shall not be required to, 
specify the date such Cause occurred (including by determining that a prior termination of Employment 
was for Cause).  Any rights the Firm may have hereunder and in any Award Agreement in respect of the 
events giving rise to Cause shall be in addition to the rights the Firm may have under any other agreement 
with a Grantee or at law or in equity.
(f) “Certificate” means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of 
ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
(g) “Change in Control” means the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share 
exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving GS Inc. (a “Reorganization”) or sale or other 
disposition of all or substantially all of GS Inc.’s assets to an entity that is not an affiliate of GS Inc. (a 
“Sale”), that in each case requires the approval of GS Inc.’s shareholders under the law of GS Inc.’s 
jurisdiction of organization, whether for such Reorganization or Sale (or the issuance of securities of GS 
Inc. in such Reorganization or Sale), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale, either:  
(i) at least 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the 
case of an entity other than a corporation) of (A) the entity resulting from such Reorganization, or the 
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc. in a Sale (in either case, the 
“Surviving Entity”), or (B) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has beneficial 
- 23 -
ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as such Rule is in effect on the 
date of the adoption of the 1999 SIP) of 50% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election 
of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity 
(the “Parent Entity”) is represented by GS Inc.’s securities (the “GS Inc. Securities”) that were 
outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares 
into which such GS Inc. Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale) or (ii) at least 
50% of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a 
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the 
consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the Board’s approval of the execution of 
the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, individuals (the “Incumbent Directors”) 
who either (A) were members of the Board on the Effective Date or (B) became directors subsequent to 
the Effective Date and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least two-
thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of GS Inc.’s 
proxy statement in which such persons are named as nominees for director).
(h) “Client” means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the Grantee provided 
services, or for whom the Grantee transacted business, or whose identity became known to the Grantee in 
connection with the Grantee’s relationship with or employment by the Firm.
(i) “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the 
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
(j) “Common Stock” means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.
(k) “Competitive Enterprise” means an existing or planned business enterprise that (i) 
engages, or may reasonably be expected to engage, in any activity; (ii) owns or controls, or may 
reasonably be expected to own or control, a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity 
or (iii) is, or may reasonably be expected to be, owned by, or a significant interest in which is, or may 
reasonably be expected to be, owned or controlled by, any entity that engages in any activity that, in any 
case, competes or will compete anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged.  The activities 
covered by this definition include, without limitation: financial services such as investment banking; 
public or private finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than the 
Grantee and members of the Grantee’s family (including for the avoidance of doubt, any type of 
proprietary investing or trading); private wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial 
cash management; consumer, digital or commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge 
fund management; insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or 
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, 
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.
(l) “Covered Person” means a member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of 
the Firm.
(m) “Date of Grant” means the date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as the date 
of grant of the Award.
(n) [“Dividend Equivalent Right” means a dividend equivalent right granted under the Plan, 
which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all or any 
portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered by an 
Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award.] 
- 24 -
(o) “Effective Date” means the date this Plan is approved by the shareholders of GS Inc. 
pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Plan.
(p) “Employment” means the Grantee’s performance of services for the Firm, as determined 
by the Committee.  The terms “employ” and “employed” shall have their correlative meanings.  The 
Committee in its sole discretion may determine (i) whether and when a Grantee’s leave of absence results 
in a termination of Employment (for this purpose, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Grantee 
shall be treated as terminating Employment with the Firm upon the occurrence of an Extended Absence), 
(ii) whether and when a change in a Grantee’s association with the Firm results in a termination of 
Employment and (iii) the impact, if any, of any such leave of absence or change in association on Awards 
theretofore made.  Unless expressly provided otherwise, any references in the Plan or any Award 
Agreement to a Grantee’s Employment being terminated shall include both voluntary and involuntary 
terminations.  
(q) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder. 
(r) “Extended Absence” means the Grantee’s inability to perform for six (6) continuous 
months, due to illness, injury or pregnancy-related complications, substantially all the essential duties of 
the Grantee’s occupation, as determined by the Committee.
(s) “Firm” means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(t) “Good Reason” means, in connection with a termination of employment by a Grantee 
following a Change in Control, (i) as determined by the Committee, a materially adverse alteration in the 
Grantee’s position or in the nature or status of the Grantee’s responsibilities from those in effect 
immediately prior to the Change in Control or (ii) the Firm’s requiring the Grantee’s principal place of 
Employment to be located more than seventy-five (75) miles from the location where the Grantee is 
principally Employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required travel on the Firm’s 
business to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee’s customary business travel obligations in 
the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).
(u) “Grantee” means a person who receives an Award.
(v) “GS Inc.” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.
(w) “1999 SIP” means The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect prior to 
the effective date of the 2003 SIP.
(x) “Outstanding” means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited, cancelled, 
terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the Award have 
not been previously delivered or other payments made.
(y) “Restricted Share” means a share of Common Stock delivered under the Plan that is 
subject to Transfer Restrictions, forfeiture provisions and/or other terms and conditions specified herein 
and in the Restricted Share Award Agreement or other applicable Award Agreement.  All references to 
Restricted Shares include “Shares at Risk.”
(z) “Retirement” means termination of the Grantee’s Employment (other than for Cause) on 
or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of the Grantee’s age plus years of service with 
- 25 -
the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) the Grantee 
has completed at least 10 years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole 
discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) the Grantee has attained age 50 and (B) the Grantee has completed at 
least five years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
(aa)“RSU” means a restricted stock unit granted under the Plan, which represents an 
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the 
RSU Award Agreement.
(ab)“Section 409A” means Section 409A of the Code, including any amendments or 
successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other administrative guidance thereunder, in 
each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or interpreted through further administrative 
guidance.  
(ac)“SIP Administrator” means each person designated by the Committee as a “SIP 
Administrator” with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative functions for the Plan.
(ad)“SIP Committee” means the persons who have been delegated certain authority under the 
Plan by the Committee.  
(ae)“Solicit” means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless 
of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, suggesting, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in 
any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action.  The terms “Solicited,” “Soliciting” and 
“Solicitation” will have their correlative meanings.
(af) “Transfer Restrictions” means restrictions that prohibit the sale, exchange, transfer, 
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposal (including through the use of 
any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by the Grantee, of an Award or any 
shares of Common Stock, cash or other property delivered in respect of an Award.
(ag)“Vested” means, with respect to an Award, the portion of the Award that is not subject to 
a condition that the Grantee remain actively employed by the Firm in order for the Award to remain 
Outstanding.  The fact that an Award becomes Vested shall not mean or otherwise indicate that the 
Grantee has an unconditional or nonforfeitable right to such Award, and such Award shall remain subject 
to such terms, conditions and forfeiture provisions as may be provided for in the Plan or in the Award 
Agreement.
(ah)“Vesting Date” means each date specified in the Grantee’s Award Agreement as a date 
on which part or all of an Award becomes Vested. 
(ai) “Window Period” means a period designated by the Firm during which all employees of 
the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if the Grantee is a 
member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different restrictions, the Window Period 
may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of the Firm in such designated group 
is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).
- 26 -
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Signature Card for _______________ Awards 
and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery
[IMPORTANT:  PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: 
________________________________.
YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND 
CONDITIONS OF YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS.]
1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 
(2021) (the “Plan”), the Award Agreement(s) and the Award Statement applicable to me in connection with 
each _______________ Award (collectively, the “Award”) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined in 
the Plan).  I confirm that I am accepting the Award subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Plan, 
the applicable Award Agreement and Award Statement, the Language Notice for Equity Awards, this Signature 
Card and the other documentation presented to me in connection with acceptance of the Award (collectively, 
the “Award Documentation”).  I understand that I will have no less than 14 days after the Award Documentation is 
first made available to me in full to accept my Award by executing this Signature Card (including by electronic means).  
To the extent that I am entitled to request a translation in accordance with the Language Notice for Equity Awards, and 
such a request is made and accepted, I further understand that the Acceptance Deadline (as defined in the applicable 
Award Agreement) will be extended by a reasonable time period (of at least 14 days) after receipt of the translation, as 
communicated to me together with the translation.
For the avoidance of doubt, I understand and agree that to be eligible to receive any award under the Plan, I must not 
have engaged in any conduct constituting “Cause” (as defined in the Plan) prior to the grant of the Award, and by 
accepting this Award, I represent and warrant that I have not engaged in any conduct constituting Cause.
As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award (and any other award that the Firm may grant to me under the 
Plan) is subject to governing law provisions in the Plan or applicable Award Agreement; and, as a condition to receiving 
such awards, I agree to be bound thereby.  I also agree, as a condition of this grant, to the electronic consent in 
Paragraph 6 below.
2. By accepting my Award and executing this Signature Card, I confirm that I am agreeing to the additional 
contractual terms presented to me with the Award Documentation (the “Additional Terms”) and acknowledge 
that my agreement to the Additional Terms is a condition of my Award.  I acknowledge that such Additional 
Terms include the Policy on Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based Awards and Other 
Deferred Compensation (the “Notice Period Policy”) and the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of Employment-
Related Matters.  I further acknowledge that such Additional Terms may also include the APAC Restrictive 
Covenants and any agreement(s) specific to my role, business unit or division.
I acknowledge and understand that, to the extent the Award Documentation subjects me to any post-employment 
restriction, I have the right to consult with an attorney prior to accepting my Award.  I further acknowledge and 
understand that my eligibility for the Award constitutes good and valuable consideration for any post-
employment restriction contained in the Award Documentation.
3. As a condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my United States 
(“U.S.”) tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure to supply a 
required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I receive pursuant to this grant.
Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the United Kingdom at any time during the 
earnings period relating to any award under the Plan, as determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the 
Firm, I will agree to a Joint Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial 
disapplication of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and will 
sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares of GS Inc. common stock (“Shares”) underlying 
the Award and any previous grants made to me under the Plan and understand that the Firm intends to meet its delivery 
obligations in Shares with respect to my Award, except as may be prohibited by law or described in the accompanying 
Award Agreement(s) or supplementary materials.
If I have worked in Switzerland at any time during the earnings period relating to the Award granted to me as determined 
by the Firm, (a) I acknowledge that my Award is subject to tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of 
taxable values to be agreed by the Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as 
otherwise directed by the Firm, and (b) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in respect of any 
Award, which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of Shares, and (c) I undertake to declare and make a 
full and accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award in accordance with the above ruling or as directed by the 
Firm.
Exhibit 10.45
4. I agree to open and activate any brokerage, trust, sub-trust, custody or similar account (an “Account”), as required or 
approved by the Firm in its sole discretion.  I agree to access, review, execute and be bound by any agreements that 
govern any such Account, including any provisions that provide for the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and 
withdrawals of Shares; permitting the Firm to monitor any such Account; and the limitations on the liability of the party 
(which may not be affiliated with the Firm) providing the Account and the Firm.  I understand and agree that the Firm 
may direct the transfer of securities, cash or other assets in my Account to the Firm in connection with any 
indebtedness or any other obligation that I have to the Firm, as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion, however 
such obligation may have arisen. I also agree to open an Account with any other custodian, broker, trustee, transfer 
agent or similar party selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an Account with such 
custodian, broker, trustee, transfer agent or similar party as a condition to delivery of Shares underlying the Award.
5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social Security, or similar 
contributions) in connection with the Award (or does so in the future), and if I have not signed a separate loan 
agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to withhold from my compensation any amounts required to 
reimburse it for any such advance or loan to the extent permitted by applicable law.
I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any outstanding amount. I further 
understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the extent permitted by the Award Agreement(s) and 
applicable law (including Section 409A (as defined in the Award Agreement), which limits the Firm’s ability to offset in the 
case of U.S. taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the Firm against its 
delivery obligations under the Award, against any obligations to remove restrictions and/or other terms and conditions in 
respect of any Restricted Shares or Shares at Risk (each as defined in the applicable Award Agreement) or against any 
other amounts the Firm then owes me, including payments of dividends or dividend equivalent payments.  I understand 
that the delivery of Shares pursuant to the Award is conditioned on my satisfaction of any applicable taxes or Social 
Security contributions (collectively referred to as “tax” or “taxes” for purposes of the Award Documentation) in accordance 
with the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide 
amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, state, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on me or the Firm in 
connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award by requiring me to choose between remitting such amount (a) 
in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise), (b) in the form of proceeds from the Firm’s executing a sale of Shares 
delivered to me pursuant to the Award or (c) as otherwise permitted in the applicable Award Agreement; provided, 
however, that in no event shall any such choice determine, or give me any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of 
Shares or payment of tax obligations.
6. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the Plan or any Shares that I may receive in 
connection with the Award or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any 
amendment or variation thereof or any documents listed in Paragraph 7, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by me 
of the Award electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me or the Firm, and (c) the 
receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs or via Goldman Sachs’ intranet site (or, if I 
am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means 
as the Firm and I may agree) all notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection 
therewith including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus covering 
securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the information contained in any such 
document and any information required to be delivered to me under Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, 
including, for example, the annual report to security holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of GS Inc. for its latest 
fiscal year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such document in physical 
form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs’ intranet site (or, if I am no longer 
employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as notified to me by the Firm) periodically as I deem appropriate for 
any new notices or information concerning the Plan. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of 
such documents in electronic form in order to receive the Award and that I may decline to receive such documents in 
electronic form by contacting ___________________, which will provide me with hard copies of such documents upon 
request.  I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at any time on three business days’ 
written notice.
7. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in Paragraph 6 the 
following documents:
•
The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (2021);
•
Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (2021);
•
The most recent annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.;
•
The Award Agreement(s);
•
The Award Statement;
•
The Language Notice for Equity Awards; and
•
Summaries of the Award (“Award Summary”).
8. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications, filings or remittances of 
funds that may be required in connection with the Plan or otherwise on my behalf. I acknowledge that any such 
authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award until such time as I expressly revoke the 
authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the Firm. I understand that this authorization does 
-2-
not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with any such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be 
required to make in connection with the Plan and I accept full responsibility in this regard.
9. The granting of the Award, the delivery of the underlying Shares and any subsequent dividends or dividend equivalent 
payments, and the receipt of any proceeds in connection with the Award may result in legal or regulatory requirements 
in some jurisdictions. I understand and agree that it is my responsibility to ensure that I comply with any legal or 
regulatory requirements in respect of the Award.
10.I confirm that I have filed all tax returns that I am required to file and paid all taxes I am required to pay with respect to 
awards previously granted to me by the Firm, and I agree, with respect to both the Award as well as awards previously 
granted to me by the Firm, to file all tax returns I am required to file in connection with the Award and any sales of any 
Shares or other property delivered pursuant to the Award and to pay all taxes I am required to pay.
11.The goodwill associated with the relationships between the Firm and its clients and prospective clients is a valuable 
asset of the Firm that is built and preserved through the combined services and efforts of the Firm and all of its 
personnel.  The Firm provides its employees with a unique platform of financial products and services, confidential and 
proprietary information, professional training, access to specialized expertise, research, analytical, operational, and 
business development support, travel and entertainment expenses and other valuable resources to build and enhance 
the goodwill associated with the relationships between the Firm and its clients, as well as to foster and establish such 
relationships with prospective clients. Accordingly, I acknowledge and agree that (a) because the Firm contributes 
valuable resources to build and enhance client relationships, including those for which I provide services, it has a 
legitimate and essential business interest in protecting the goodwill associated with those relationships; (b) by my 
continued employment, I confirm that I have assigned and will assign to the Firm all goodwill I have developed or will 
develop with persons or entities with whom I interact while at the Firm and/or who are or will become clients or 
prospective clients of the Firm in connection with my employment with the Firm, even if I did business with such 
persons or entities prior to joining the Firm; and (c) while at the Firm I do not have and will not acquire any property, 
proprietary, contractual or other legal right or interest whatsoever in or to any client or prospective client with whom I 
interact or conduct business while employed by the Firm or (except to the extent otherwise provided in a written 
agreement between the Firm and me that governs my compensation) to any current or prospective revenues 
associated with such client or prospective client (all such interests being referred to herein as “Intangible Interests”).  
For the avoidance of doubt, I am hereby assigning all Intangible Interests to the Firm.  I acknowledge and agree that 
my compensation during the term of my employment with the Firm is adequate financial consideration in this regard, 
and that no further consideration is necessary (including in respect of obligations applicable to me after my 
employment with the Firm has ended).
Data Collection, Processing and Transfers
Grantees residing outside of the European Economic Area (“EEA”), the United Kingdom (“UK”) and the PRC 
(defined below):  If I am located outside of the EEA, the UK and the PRC, I consent to the processing of my 
personal data in accordance with the information set out below.
Grantees residing in the EEA or the UK:  If I am located in the EEA or the UK, my personal data will be 
processed in accordance with the information set out below and in the GS HCM – Fair Processing Notice which 
can be found at http://www.goldmansachs.com/notices/hcm-fpn.html.  In the event of any inconsistency, the 
GS HCM – Fair Processing Notice shall prevail over this section.
Grantees residing in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) (which, for the purpose of this section, excludes 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Macau Special Administrative Region and Taiwan):  If I am located 
in the PRC, I give my consent to the processing of my personal data as follows by signing this Signature Card:
•
The Firm will process my personal data as set out in this section.  I consent to such use.
•
The Firm will process and retain my sensitive personal data as set out in this section and underlined.  I 
consent to such use.
•
The Firm will transfer my personal data to third parties within the PRC, as described by this section and 
the hyperlinks within it.  I consent to such transfers.
•
The Firm will transfer my personal data to third parties outside the PRC, as described by this section and 
the hyperlinks within it.  I consent to such transfers.
---
-3-
For All Grantees:
In connection with the Plan and any equity-based award under the Plan, including my Award (collectively, the 
“Program”), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may process 
(including, where applicable, collecting, transferring/transmitting internationally and/or domestically, 
disclosing, using and storing) various data that is personal to me, and my data might be deemed sensitive 
personal data in certain jurisdictions, including but not limited to my name, address, work location, hire date, 
Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (as required for tax purposes), type and 
amount of Plan or other benefit plan award, other compensation-related data, citizenship or residency (required 
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of the Program 
(collectively referred to as “Information”) and provide such Information to its affiliates, Computershare Limited 
and its affiliates (collectively “Computershare”) and Fidelity Stock Plan Services, LLC, Fidelity Personal Trust 
Company, FSB and any of their affiliates (collectively “Fidelity”) or any other service provider that assists in 
the administration of the Program (e.g., brokerage, custody and nominee services), whether in the U.S. or 
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Program and under the laws of these 
jurisdictions. 
In certain circumstances and subject to any applicable restrictions regarding cross-border data transfers in the 
jurisdiction where I reside, where required by law, foreign courts, law enforcement agencies or regulatory 
agencies may be entitled to access the Information.  Unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its 
affiliates and its service providers (through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and 
manual processing) will process this Information only for purposes of administering the Program.  In the U.S. 
and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the administration of the Program, the 
level of data protection may not be equivalent to data protection standards in the member states of the EEA, 
Switzerland, New Zealand, Canada or certain Canadian provinces or my home country and U.S. public 
authorities may potentially access such Information.
If I am employed in Argentina, the PRC, Peru, South Korea or Turkey, I have also read the text in bold in the 
respective Argentina, the PRC, Peru and Turkey legal notices below (the “Argentina Clause”, the “PRC 
Clause”, the “Peru Clause” or the “Turkey Clause”) in conjunction with this Data Collection, Processing and 
Transfers section, and I acknowledge that such text forms part of this section and that in the event of any 
inconsistency the Argentina Clause, PRC Clause, Peru Clause or Turkey Clause, as applicable, shall prevail 
over this section.  
Upon request to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 200 West Street, 19th Floor, New York, NY 10282, 
telephone (212) 357-1444, email EquityCompensation@ny.email.gs.com, to the extent required under the laws 
of the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the Information and may 
exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, in each case free of charge, including objecting to any 
type of processing of the Information and requesting that the Information be updated or corrected (if wrong), 
completed or clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if it cannot legally be collected or kept).  Upon 
request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, a team member or representative of 
Equity Compensation (division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with: (i) written information about 
the Firm’s policies and practices with respect to service providers outside of my jurisdiction, including a list of 
all the service providers used in connection with the Program at the time of request; and/or (ii) answers to my 
questions about the processing of my Information by service providers or affiliates outside of my jurisdiction.
There is no legal obligation for me to provide the Firm with the Information and any Information is provided at 
my own will and consent.  If I refuse to authorize the processing of the Information consistent with the above, I 
may not benefit from the Program.  The processing of the Information will be consistent with the above for the 
period of administration of the Program.  In particular (within the limits described above): (i) the Firm will 
process data (Firm means GS Inc. and any of its subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii) Fidelity or Computershare will 
process data; (iii) the Firm’s other service providers will process data; and (iv) data will be transferred to the 
U.S. and other countries, as described above for the purposes set forth herein.  A list of the Firm’s international 
offices and countries to which data that is personal to me can be transferred is set forth at https://
www.goldmansachs.com/our-firm/locations.  The Information may be retained by the aforementioned persons 
beyond the period of administration of the Program to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable 
jurisdiction.
-4-
Other Legal Notices
12.
By accepting (whether expressly or by implication) any benefit granted to me by the Firm, including, without 
limitation, my Award, I acknowledge and agree to each of the following:
•
No Public Offer:  Awards under the Plan and the Firm’s other compensation and benefit programs are strictly 
limited to eligible participants and are not intended to constitute a public offer in any jurisdiction, nor intended for 
registration in any jurisdiction outside of the U.S.  I must keep all Award Documentation confidential and I may not 
reproduce, distribute or otherwise make public any part of such documents without the Firm’s express written 
consent. If I have received any such documents and I am not the intended recipient, I will disregard and destroy 
them.
•
Transferability:  Any provisions permitting transfers to a third party in the Award Documentation will not apply to 
me (i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of relevant exemptions or 
tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by the Firm in its sole discretion from time 
to time.
•
Adequate Information:  I acknowledge that (i) I have been provided with all relevant information and materials 
with respect to the Firm’s operations and financial conditions and the terms and conditions of my Award, (ii) I have 
read and understood such information and materials, (iii) I am fully aware and knowledgeable of the terms and 
conditions of my Award, and (iv) I completely and voluntarily agree to the terms and conditions of my Award.
•
Independent Advice Recommended:  The information provided by the Firm or its service providers in respect of 
an Award does not take into account the individual circumstances of recipients and does not constitute legal, 
investment or tax advice. Awards under the Plan involve certain risks and I should exercise caution. The Firm 
recommends that I consult my own independent legal, investment and tax advisors in all cases, and I 
acknowledge that I am provided with adequate opportunity to do so.
•
Share Price and Currency Risks:  There is a risk that Shares may fall as well as rise in value. Market forces will 
impact the price of Shares and, in the worst case, the market value of the Shares may become zero. If the Shares 
are traded in a currency which is not the currency in my jurisdiction, the value of the Shares to me may also be 
affected by movements in the exchange rate. The Firm is not liable for any loss due to movements in the price of 
Shares or any applicable exchange rate.
•
No Employer Involvement:  Except to the extent required by applicable law, all Awards are offered, issued and 
administered by GS Inc., a Delaware corporation, and my employer (if it is not GS Inc.) is not involved in the grant 
of my Award or any other GS Inc. equity compensation. All Award Documentation and the link by which I access 
these documents are originated and maintained in the U.S.
•
No Effect on Employment-Related Rights:  Any compensation I receive (even on a regular and repeated basis) 
in connection with the Plan is discretionary and does not constitute part of my base or normal salary or wages. It 
does not affect my rights and obligations under the terms of my employment and it will not be taken into account 
(except to the extent otherwise required by applicable law) in determining any other employment-related rights I 
may have, including, without limitation, rights in relation to severance, redundancy or end-of-service payments, 
bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits. In particular, I waive any and all rights to 
compensation or damages in consequence of the termination of my employment for any reason whatsoever 
insofar as those rights arise or may arise from me ceasing to have rights under, or be entitled to receive payment 
in respect of, the Plan, or from the loss or diminution in value of such rights, as a result of such termination. This 
waiver applies whether or not such termination amounts to wrongful or unfair dismissal.
•
No Additional Entitlements:  The grant of an Award is strictly discretionary and voluntary. Neither this Award 
(even if grants are made to me under the Plan on a regular and repeated basis) nor my employment contract 
implies any expectation or right in relation to (i) the grant of any award under the Plan or similar compensation in 
the future, (ii) the terms, conditions and amount of any award under the Plan or similar compensation that the 
Firm may decide to grant in the future, or (iii) continued employment or engagement.
•
Severability:  Unless another result is specifically provided for in an agreement to the contrary, if any provision (in 
whole or in part) of the Award Documentation (including but not limited to the Agreement Regarding Arbitration of 
Employment-Related Matters) is to any extent illegal, otherwise invalid, or incapable of being enforced, that 
provision will be excluded to the extent (only) of such invalidity or unenforceability. All other provisions will remain 
in full effect and, to the extent possible, the invalid or unenforceable provision will be deemed replaced by a 
provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of such invalid or 
unenforceable provision.
•
Country-Specific Legal Notices:  I have read the country-specific legal notices below that pertain to my place of 
employment and/or residence (and also the location of my employer, if different), if any, and understand that they 
apply throughout the term of my Award.
Country-Specific Legal Notices
FOR EMPLOYEES IN CERTAIN EUROPEAN UNION JURISDICTIONS (BELGIUM, CZECH REPUBLIC, 
DENMARK, FRANCE, GERMANY, GREECE, IRELAND, ITALY, LUXEMBOURG, SPAIN AND SWEDEN)
-5-
You are being offered an Award under the Plan in order to provide an additional incentive and to encourage employee 
share ownership and to increase your interest in GS Inc.’s success.  The Award is offered to you by GS Inc. in accordance 
with the terms of the Plan which are summarized in the Award Summary.  Further details on the rights attaching to your 
Award can be found in the Award Summary.  More information about GS Inc. is available at www.gs.com.
The Shares subject to the Award are new or existing ordinary shares in GS Inc. and information on the total maximum 
number of Shares which can be offered under the Plan rules can be found in the section entitled Shares Available for 
Awards in the Plan.  The obligation to publish a prospectus does not apply because of Article 1(4)(i) of the EU Prospectus 
Regulation 2017/1129.
If applicable, you should also refer to any additional specific notices below in relation to these jurisdictions.
FOR ARGENTINA EMPLOYEES ONLY
Your Award is being offered to you in connection with your employment or appointment by the Firm, as applicable.  The 
Plan is not offered to the general public.  By receiving and accepting your Award, you are deemed to: (i) acknowledge that 
the Firm has not made, and will not make, any application to obtain an authorization from the National Securities 
Commission (Comisión Nacional de Valores) for the public offering of the underlying Shares in Argentina, or otherwise 
taken any action that would permit a public offering of the underlying Shares in Argentina within the meaning of Argentine 
Capital Markets Law No. 26,831, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the “CML”) and of 
the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission General Resolution No. 622/2013, as amended, supplemented or 
otherwise modified from time to time, and ancillary regulations (the “CNV Rules”); (ii) acknowledge that the Argentine 
Securities Exchange Commission (the “CNV”) has not previously reviewed nor approved the offering of the underlying 
Shares nor any document relating to their offering and therefore that this offer is being delivered to you on a private basis 
in accordance with Sub-title I, Chapter I, Title XX of the CNV Rules or Sub-title II, Chapter I, Title XX of the CNV Rules, as 
applicable; (iii) acknowledge that the CNV has not rendered and will not render any opinion in respect of the documents 
governing the Plan, and all information contained herein is the responsibility of the Firm and additional intervening parties; 
(iv) acknowledge that the Plan is exempted from complying with the general rules applicable to public offerings; and (v) 
agree that you will not sell or offer to sell any Shares acquired upon settlement of your Award in Argentina within the 
following 6 months after acquisition if it is not a primary placement pursuant to section 17 of Sub-title II, Chapter I, Title 
XXX or to Qualified Investors within 3 months, or to Non-Qualified Investors within 6 months from the date of its 
acquisition pursuant to section 10 of Sub-title I, Chapter I, Title XX, as applicable, of the CNV Rules.
Receipt and acceptance of the Award Documentation constitutes your agreement that the information contained in the 
Award Documentation may not be: (i) reproduced or used, in whole or in part, for any purpose whatsoever other than as a 
representation of your holding of your Award, or (ii) furnished to or discussed with any person (other than your personal 
advisors on a confidential basis) without the express written permission of GS Inc.
You acknowledge that the Access to Public Information Agency, as the enforcing authority of Act 25.326, has the power to 
attend the reports and claims from those who are affected in their rights as a consequence of non-fulfilment of data 
protection provisions.  (La Agencia de Acceso a la Información Pública, en su carácter de Órgano de Control de la Ley Nº 
25.326, tiene la atribución de atender las denuncias y reclamos que interpongan quienes resulten afectados en sus 
derechos por incumplimiento de las normas vigentes en materia de protección de datos personales.)
Additional data protection information for Argentina employees (which should be read in conjunction with, and 
forms part of, the Data Collection, Processing and Transfers section above):
You understand that your data may be stored in a database duly registered with the Argentine National Data 
Protection Agency, under the name and responsibility of GS Inc. or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates.
FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY
Offers under the Plan are made under Division 1A of Part 7.12 of the Corporations Act.
GS Inc. undertakes that it will, within a reasonable period of you so requesting and at no charge, provide you with a copy 
of the rules of the Plan.  The market price of a Share can be accessed at the following link: https://www.nyse.com/index.  
The Australian dollar equivalent of that market price can be ascertained by applying the prevailing U.S. dollar (“USD”) / 
Australia dollar (“AUD”) exchange rate published by the Reserve Bank of Australia, which can be accessed at the 
following link: http://www.rba.gov.au/statistics/frequency/exchange-rates.html.
Any advice given by GS Inc. in connection with the Plan is general advice only.  The Award Documentation does not take 
into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular person.  Before acting on the information 
contained in the Award Documentation, or making a decision to participate, you should consider obtaining your own 
-6-
financial product advice from a person who is licensed by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission to give 
such advice.
Throughout the period in which you hold a dividend equivalent right you may obtain copies of all information filed by GS 
Inc. with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) which is accessible by GS Inc.’s shareholders and the 
general public (“shareholder information”) by going to the SEC’s website (https://www.sec.gov) or to the GS Inc. website 
(www.gs.com), and at http://www.goldmansachs.com/investor-relations/financials/.  You should be aware that shareholder 
information can affect the value of your dividend equivalent rights from time to time.
The actual value you receive in respect of the Shares acquired by you will depend on the number of Shares you receive, 
the market value of a Share, the value of any dividend and dividend equivalent payments made in respect of a Share, and 
the USD/AUD exchange rate.
There are risks associated with an investment in Shares and the value of any Shares you receive may be less than the 
value of those Shares today.  Some of those risks are specific to GS Inc.’s business activities while others are of a more 
general nature.  For more detail on those risks, please refer to GS Inc.’s most recent annual report.  Individually or in 
combination, those risks may affect the value of Shares.
FOR BRAZIL EMPLOYEES ONLY
The Award referred to in this Signature Card and the underlying Shares have not been and will not be publicly issued, 
placed, distributed, offered or negotiated in the Brazilian capital markets and, as a result, will not be registered with the 
Brazilian Securities Commission (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários).  The Award and the underlying Shares will not be 
offered or sold in Brazil under any circumstances that constitute a public offering, placement, distribution or negotiation 
under the Brazilian capital markets regulation.
By accepting the Award, you agree and acknowledge that (i) neither your employer or contracting company, as applicable, 
nor any person or entity acting on their behalf has provided you with financial advice with respect to your Award or the 
Shares acquired upon settlement of your Award; and (ii) your employer or contracting company, as applicable, does not 
guarantee a specified level of return on your Award or the Shares.
FOR CHILE EMPLOYEES ONLY
By accepting the Signature Card connected to your Award, you acknowledge that this legend applies to all Award 
Documentation and communications.
General Warning
Neither GS Inc., the Plan nor the Shares have been registered in the Registro de Valores (“Securities Registry”) or in the 
Registro de Valores Extranjeros (“Foreign Securities Registry”) of the Comisión para el Mercado Financiero (Chilean 
Commission for the Financial Market or “CMF”) and they are not subject to the control of the CMF.  If such securities are 
offered within Chile, they will be offered and sold only pursuant to Norma de Carácter General 336 (General Regulation 
336) of the CMF, an exemption to the registration requirements, or in circumstances which do not constitute a public offer 
of securities in Chile within the meaning of Article 4 of the Chilean Securities Market Law 18,045.  As the Shares are not 
registered, the issuer has no obligation under Chilean law to deliver public information regarding the Shares in Chile.  The 
Shares shall not be subject to public offering in Chile unless they are registered in the Foreign Securities Registry of the 
CMF.  The commencement date of the offer is the date of the email in which the Award Documentation (including this 
Signature Card) was first communicated to you.
Statement by Investors (Grantees)
Pursuant to General Regulation 336 (as amended), you are required to inform GS Inc. whether or not you are a “Qualified 
Investor” as defined in Norma de Carácter General 216 (General Regulation 216) of the CMF.  By accepting the Signature 
Card connected to your Award, you state to GS Inc. that you are not a Qualified Investor, or if you are a Qualified Investor, 
that you have provided a separate statement acknowledging this to GS Inc. (please note that any such statement may be 
emailed to GS Inc. at EquityCompensation@ny.email.gs.com).  By accepting the Signature Card connected to your 
Award, you further state to GS Inc. that you acknowledge:
(i) that the securities acquired in connection with the Plan will not be registered in the CMF Securities Registry or Foreign 
Securities Registry and, therefore, such securities may not be publicly offered in Chile; and
(ii) that since GS Inc. is not registered in the registries kept by the CMF, GS Inc. will not be subject to the CMF’s oversight 
nor to the ongoing disclosure obligations imposed by the law and regulation on registered issuers.
-7-
Accessibility of Award Documentation
The Firm undertakes to provide you with a copy of the Award Documentation in a form that remains accessible even if 
your employment is terminated.
SÓLO PARA EMPLEADOS DE CHILE
Al aceptar la “Signature Card” relacionada con su plan, usted reconoce que esta leyenda se aplica a todos los 
documentos y comunicaciones relacionados con el Plan.
Advertencia General
Ni GS Inc., ni el Plan, ni las Acciones, han sido registradas en el Registro de Valores o Registro de Valores Extranjeros 
que lleva la Comisión para el Mercado Financiero (“CMF”) y ninguno de ellos está sujeto a la fiscalización de la CMF.  Si 
dichos valores son ofrecidos dentro de Chile, serán ofrecidos y colocados sólo de acuerdo a la Norma de Carácter 
General 336 de la CMF, una excepción a la obligación de registro, o en circunstancias que no constituyan una oferta 
pública de valores en Chile según lo definido por el Artículo 4 de la Ley 18.045 de Mercado de Valores de Chile.  Por 
tratarse de valores no inscritos, el emisor de las Acciones no tiene obligación bajo la ley chilena de entregar en Chile 
información pública acerca de las Acciones.  Las Acciones no pueden ser ofrecidas públicamente en Chile en tanto éstas 
no se registren en el Registro de Valores Extranjeros de la CMF. Se informa que la fecha de inicio de la presente oferta 
es la fecha del correo electrónico en el que se le comunicaron por primera vez los documentos del Premio (incluida esta 
Signature Card).
Declaración de los Inversionistas (Destinatarios)
De conformidad con la Norma de Carácter General N°336 (modificada), se requiere que usted informe a GS Inc. si 
califica como “Inversionista Calificado” en los términos de la Norma de Carácter General N°216 de la CMF.  Por medio de 
la aceptación de la Signature Card referida a su Plan, usted declara a GS Inc., que no califica como “Inversionista 
Calificado”, o que si califica como “Inversionista Calificado”, usted ha enviado por separado una declaración 
reconociendo dicha circunstancia a GS Inc. (favor tenga en cuenta que cualquier declaración puede ser enviada a GS 
Inc., al correo EquityCompensation@ny.email.gs.com).  Por medio de la aceptación de la Signature Card referida a su 
plan, usted declara a GS Inc., que está en conocimiento de que:
(i) los valores adquiridos en conexión con el Plan no estarán inscritos en el Registro de Valores o en el Registro de 
Valores Extranjeros de la CMF y, por lo tanto, dichos valores no podrán ser públicamente ofrecidos en Chile; y
(ii) dado que GS Inc. no está inscrita en los registros mantenidos por la CMF, GS Inc. no estará sujeta a la fiscalización 
de la CMF ni a las obligaciones de información continua impuestas por la ley y la regulación a los emisores inscritos.
Accesibilidad a los Documentos del Plan
La empresa se obliga a entregarle una copia de los documentos clave relativos al plan de forma tal que permanezcan 
accesibles a usted incluso luego de terminada su relación laboral con ésta.
FOR THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY
All Award Documentation is intended for your personal use and in your capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its 
affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award which the 
Firm may grant to you as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the Award 
Documentation.  The grant of the Award has not been and will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory 
Commission of the People’s Republic of China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award may 
not be offered or sold within the mainland of the People’s Republic of China by means of any of the Award Documentation 
through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration or approval of the China Securities Regulatory 
Commission of the People’s Republic of China in accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.
You agree that notwithstanding anything to the contrary under the Plan or the Award Agreement(s), the Award may be 
settled in cash in Renminbi or such other currency, payable by your employing entity in the mainland of the People’s 
Republic of China or such other entity, in each case, as may be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion.
Additional data protection information for the People’s Republic of China employees (which should be read in 
conjunction with, and forms part of, the Data Collection, Processing and Transfers section above):
You have the ability to request the name, contact information, processing purpose and processing methods for 
any onshore data controller to which the Firm discloses your personal data in connection with your Award.  You 
also have the ability to request the information listed in the preceding sentence, as well as information on the 
procedures that you may follow to exercise your data rights, in relation to any foreign party to which the Firm 
-8-
discloses your personal data in connection with your Award.  The Firm will respond to any such request by you 
as soon as is reasonably practicable for the Firm.
FOR FRANCE EMPLOYEES ONLY
The provisions of the Award Agreement will apply only in respect of the year to which the Award Agreement relates and 
will not in any circumstances create any right or entitlement to you for any future fiscal years.
POUR LES SALARIES EN FRANCE
Les dispositions relatives à la Convention d’Attribution s'appliquent uniquement à l'année concernée par la Convention 
d’Attribution et ne créent en aucun cas un droit s'agissant des années fiscales à venir.
FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY
WARNING:
The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  You are advised to 
exercise caution in relation to the Award.  If you are in doubt about any of the contents of this document, you should obtain 
independent professional advice.
This document has not been, and will not be, registered as a "prospectus" in Hong Kong under the Companies (Winding 
Up and Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance (Cap 32) nor has it been authorised by the Securities and Futures 
Commission in Hong Kong pursuant to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap 571) of the Laws of Hong Kong. This 
document does not constitute an offer or invitation to the public in Hong Kong to acquire any securities nor an 
advertisement of securities in Hong Kong. This document is distributed on a confidential basis.
By accepting the Award, you acknowledge and agree that you will not be permitted to transfer the Award to persons who 
fall outside the definition of “qualifying persons” in the Companies (Winding Up and Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance 
(Cap 32) (i.e., a person who is neither a current or former director, employee, officer or consultant of the Firm, nor your 
wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise 
permitted under the Plan or any of the related documents.
FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY
The Award Documentation (including any related website) does not invite offers from the public for subscription or 
purchase of the securities of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India.  The Award 
Documentation is not a prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India.  GS Inc. does not intend 
to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any body corporate by the Award 
Documentation.  The information provided in the Award Documentation is for the record only.  Any person who subscribes 
or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult their own investment advisors before making any 
investments.  GS Inc. shall not be liable or responsible for any such investment decision made by any person.
FOR INDONESIA EMPLOYEES ONLY
The Award does not constitute an offer or sale of securities in Indonesia and are being granted to fewer than 51 
individuals in Indonesia.
FOR NEW ZEALAND EMPLOYEES ONLY
GS Inc. is offering you an Award under the Plan in reliance upon clause 8 of Schedule 1 of the Financial Markets Conduct 
Act 2013 (offers under employee share purchase schemes) (“Exclusion”). In accordance with the requirements of the 
Exclusion, the following information has been made available to you:
1. GS Inc.’s most recent annual report via https://www.goldmansachs.com/investor-relations/index.html.
2. The Plan documentation (which constitutes the current rules of the employee share purchase scheme for the purposes 
of the Exclusion) on https://hcm.web.gs.com/newaward.
3. A copy of the Award Agreement on https://hcm.web.gs.com/newaward.
4. GS Inc.’s most recent published audited and unaudited financial statements on https://www.goldmansachs.com/
investor-relations/financials/index.html.
5. A copy of the auditor’s report on the above financial statements (if any) at https://www.goldmansachs.com/investor-
relations/financials/index.html.
-9-
You may obtain a copy of the documents listed above by electronic means from the internet site addresses given in each 
case.  You may request hard copies of the documents listed above free of charge from Head of Securities Compliance – 
Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd.
For further information, including the form, dividend payments, vesting, delivery, and transfer restrictions of the Awards, 
please refer to the documents listed above.
Warning
The Award is an offer of Shares (although the Award may in limited circumstances be settled in cash or other property). 
The Shares give you a stake in the ownership of GS Inc.  You may receive a return if dividends are paid.
If GS Inc. runs into financial difficulties and is wound up, you will be paid only after all creditors and holders of any 
preference shares have been paid. You may lose some or all of your investment.
New Zealand law normally requires people who offer financial products to give information to investors before they invest. 
This information is designed to help investors to make an informed decision.
The usual rules do not apply to this offer because it is made under an employee share purchase scheme.  As a result, you 
may not be given all the information usually required.  You will also have fewer other legal protections for this investment.
Ask questions, read all documents carefully, and seek independent financial advice before committing yourself.
The Shares are quoted on a stock exchange.  GS Inc. intends to quote these Shares on the New York Stock Exchange 
(“NYSE”).  This means you may be able to sell them on the NYSE if there are interested buyers.  You may get less than 
you invested.  The price will depend on the demand for the Shares.
FOR PERU EMPLOYEES ONLY
If you are employed in Peru, the following statement is hereby made part of the Award Documentation: the Shares which 
may be issued upon settlement of your Award have not been registered with the Public Registry of the Securities Market 
administered by the Peruvian Securities Market Superintendence (Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores – SMV) and 
may not be offered or sold publicly in Peru.  In addition, the contents of the Plan documents have not been reviewed by 
any Peruvian regulatory authority.
Additional data protection information for Peru employees (which should be read in conjunction with, and forms 
part of, the Data Collection, Processing and Transfers section above):
GS Inc., identified by Tax ID Number (EIN) No. 134019460, with registered office at 200 West Street, New York 
10282 – United States, will use, collect, transfer and store your following personal data for the purposes of 
administering the Plan: name, address, work location, hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer 
identification number (required for tax purposes), type and amount of Plan or other benefit plan award, 
citizenship or residency (required for tax purposes) and other similar information.  Your personal data is 
necessary for the administration of the Plan and so, if you express your refusal to provide it, GS Inc. will not be 
able to administer the Plan in respect of your Award.  Your personal data will be stored in a data bank owned by 
GS Inc., the identity and physical address of which can be obtained upon your request, for the period of 
administration of the Plan and potentially beyond that to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable 
jurisdiction(s).  Your personal data may be sent to GS Inc. affiliates (detailed at https://www.goldmansachs.com/
our-firm/locations) and service providers (including Computershare Limited and its affiliates; and Fidelity Stock 
Plan Services, LLC, Fidelity Personal Trust Company, FSB and any of their affiliates) whether in the U.S. or 
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Plan and under the laws of these 
jurisdictions.  You may exercise your rights of access, rectification and cancellation by contacting Equity 
Compensation (division of HCM) at ________________.
Información adicional sobre protección de datos para los empleados de Perú (que debe leerse junto con la 
sección Recolección, el Tratamiento y la Transferencia de Datos anterior y forma parte de ella):
GS, Inc., identificado con el número de identificación fiscal (Employer Identification Number, EIN) No. 134019460, 
con domicilio legal en 200 West Street, New York 10282 – Estados Unidos (en adelante, “GS Incs.”), utilizará, 
recopilará, transferirá y almacenará sus siguientes datos personales con el fin de administrar el Plan de 
Incentivos en Acciones Modificado y Reiterado de Goldman Sachs (en adelante, el “Programa”): nombre, 
dirección, lugar de trabajo, fecha de contratación, número de identificación de Seguridad Social, Seguro Social o 
de contribuyente (requeridos para efectos fiscales), tipo y cantidad del Plan u otras concesiones de planes de 
beneficios, ciudadanía o residencia (requeridos para efectos fiscales) y otros datos similares.  Sus datos 
personales son necesarios para la ejecución del Programa; por lo tanto, si usted manifiesta su negativa a 
-10-
proporcionarlos, Goldman Sachs no podrá administrar dicho Programa con respecto a su Premio.  Sus datos 
personales serán almacenados en un banco de datos personales de propiedad de GS Inc., cuya identidad y 
dirección física del mismo se le proporcionará a su requerimiento, durante el tiempo necesario para la 
administración del Programa y potencialmente durante más tiempo para el cumplimiento de las obligaciones 
legales que establezca la regulación aplicable. Sus datos personales podrían ser enviados a las afiliadas de GS 
Inc., detalladas en https://www.goldmansachs.com/our-firm/locations; y a proveedores de servicios o 
encargados de tratamiento (incluyendo a Computershare Limited y sus filiales; y Fidelity Stock Plan Services, 
LLC, Fidelity Personal Trust Company, FSB y cualquiera de sus filiales) ubicados en Estados Unidos de América 
y en cualquier otro país; ello en tanto sea razonablemente necesario para la administración del Programa y bajo 
las leyes de tales jurisdicciones. Podrá ejercer sus derechos de acceso, rectificación y cancelación contactando 
a Equity Compensation (división de HCM) a través del correo ________________.
FOR RUSSIA EMPLOYEES ONLY
None of the information contained in the Award Documentation constitutes an advertisement of the Award in Russia and 
must not be passed on to third parties or otherwise be made publicly available in Russia.  The Award has not been and 
will not be registered in Russia and are not intended for “placement” or “public circulation” in Russia.
You understand and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion or where required by legal or regulatory requirements, 
grant Awards as cash-settled instruments or settle Awards in cash and that you will not have any rights to the Shares 
underlying your Award (if any). Your Award will remain subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Award 
Documentation.
FOR SAUDI ARABIA EMPLOYEES ONLY
The Award Documentation may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons as are permitted under the 
Rules on the Offer of Securities and Continuing Obligations issued by the Capital Market Authority.  The Capital Market 
Authority has not reviewed the Award Documentation, nor does it make any representation as to the accuracy or 
completeness of the Award Documentation.  You acknowledge the risks associated with any investment made pursuant to 
the Award Documentation, including what may result in loss of the full amount of the investment.  You further acknowledge 
that the Firm does not have to notify the Capital Market Authority of the suitability of any investment you make pursuant to 
the Award Documentation.  The Capital Market Authority expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss arising 
from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of the Award Documentation.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered 
hereby should conduct their own due diligence on the accuracy of the information relating to the securities.  The 
informational materials prepared in connection with the Plan have been produced for information purposes only and are 
not intended to induce investment.  If you do not understand the contents of the Award Documentation you should consult 
an authorized financial adviser.
FOR SINGAPORE EMPLOYEES ONLY
The Award is a prescribed capital markets product (as defined in the Securities and Futures (Capital Markets Products) 
Regulations 2018) and Excluded Investment Product (as defined in MAS Notice SFA 04-N12: Notice on the Sale of 
Investment Products and MAS Notice FAA-N16: Notice on Recommendations on Investment Products).
The Shares or the Award may not be offered or sold, or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, 
whether directly or indirectly, to persons in Singapore other than pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, an 
exemption under any provision of Subdivision (4) of Division 1 of Part 13 of the Securities and Futures Act 2001.
FOR SOUTH KOREA EMPLOYEES ONLY
If you are located in South Korea, by signing this Signature Card and accepting your Award, you consent to the 
processing of your personal data in accordance with the information set out in the Data Collection, Processing 
and Transfers section above.  Specifically:
•
The Firm will collect and use your personal data as set out in the Data Collection, Processing and 
Transfers section.  You consent to such use.
•
The Firm will collect and use your unique identification information (foreigner registration number, 
passport number, driver’s licence number) as set out and underlined in the Data Collection, Processing 
and Transfers section.  You consent to such use.
•
The Firm will provide your personal data to third parties, as described in the Data Collection, Processing 
and Transfers section and the hyperlinks within it.  You consent to such transfers.
-11-
•
The Firm will provide your unique identification information to third parties, as described by the Data 
Collection, Processing and Transfers section and the hyperlinks within it.  You consent to such transfers.
•
The Firm will transfer your personal data and unique identification number (including foreigner 
registration number, passport number and driver’s license number) overseas to the United States and 
other countries, as described by the Data Collection, Processing and Transfers section and the 
hyperlinks within it.  You consent to such overseas transfers.
FOR SPAIN EMPLOYEES ONLY
You may be subject to certain reporting obligations for the acquisition or disposal of Shares under the Plan, the opening of 
cash or brokerage bank accounts abroad and the transfer or receipt of funds.  Please consult your own advisors regarding 
these and other legal or tax obligations that may be applicable.
FOR TURKEY EMPLOYEES ONLY
This offer is not a public offering in terms of the Turkish Capital Markets legislation and the information provided herein 
cannot be construed as a public offering. The grant of the Award should not be construed as a public offering or a private 
placement and is made to you as an employee of the Firm.  You are not obligated to accept your Award.  Your decision to 
accept or reject the Award is entirely up to you and will have no impact on your employment or your career, either positive 
or negative.  The grant of your Award does not change or supplement the terms of your employment in any way.  The 
Award Documentation does not constitute an employee handbook or an employment contract between you and the Firm.
The information set forth in the Award Documentation is solely for informative reasons and the Firm is not hereby giving 
you nor purports to be giving you investment or other financial advice.  The Firm reserves the right to suspend, change, 
amend or supplement the terms of the Award Documentation, in whole or in part, for any reason at any time.  If you are in 
doubt about the merits of the Award Documentation, you should contact your financial advisor.
Additional data protection information for Turkey employees (which should be read in conjunction with, and forms part of, 
the Data Collection, Processing and Transfers section above):
In terms of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data No. 6698 and its relevant legislation, GOLDMAN SACHS TK 
DANIŞMANLIK HİZMETLERİ ANONİM ŞİRKETİ acts as the data controller regarding your personal data in Turkey.
FOR UK EMPLOYEES ONLY
This document does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and particular needs of any 
specific person who may receive it. Recipients should seek their own financial advice.
The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Documentation.  The price of Shares and the income 
from such Shares (if any) can fluctuate and may be affected by changes in the exchange rate for U.S. dollars.  Past 
performance will not necessarily be repeated.  Levels and bases of taxation may change from time to time.  Investors 
should consult their own tax advisors in order to understand tax consequences.  GS Inc. has (and its associates may 
have) a material interest in the Shares and the investments that are the subject of this document.
-12-
CERTAIN INFORMATION, IDENTIFIED BY AND REPLACED WITH A MARK OF “[   ],” HAS BEEN 
EXCLUDED FROM THIS DOCUMENT BECAUSE IT IS BOTH (I) NOT MATERIAL AND (II) THE TYPE 
THAT THE REGISTRANT TREATS AS PRIVATE OR CONFIDENTIAL.    
Form of
Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership
for
Participants in the Long Term Executive Carried Interest Incentive Program
Exhibit 10.46
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1.1.
Name 
1
1.2.
Place of Business 
1
1.3.
Registered Office 
1
1.4.
Purpose 
2
1.5.
Status for U.S. Federal Income Tax Purposes 
2
1.6.
Powers and Authority 
2
1.7.
Term 
2
1.8.
Continuance/Qualification 
2
1.9.
Establishment of Series. 
3
ARTICLE II The General Partner; Relationship with Goldman Sachs 
4
2.1.
The General Partner 
4
2.2.
Management 
4
2.3.
Delegation of Managerial Authority 
4
2.4.
No Compensation of Members and Officers 
4
2.5.
Reliance by Third Parties 
4
2.6.
Services by Goldman Sachs; Expenses 
4
2.7.
Investment Banking and Other Activities 
6
ARTICLE III Limited Partners 
7
3.1.
Initial Limited Partner 
7
3.2.
Additional Limited Partners; Classes of Interests. 
7
3.3.
List of Limited Partners; Investment Records 
9
3.4.
No Management by Limited Partners 
9
3.5.
[           ] 
9
ARTICLE IV Liability of Partners 
9
4.1.
General Partner 
9
4.2.
Limited Partners 
9
ARTICLE V Powers of General Partner; Prohibited Transactions and Restrictions; Duties of General 
Partner; Indemnification and Contribution 
9
5.1.
Powers of the General Partner 
9
5.2.
Alternative Investment Vehicles 
12
5.3.
Fund Investment Holding Entities 
13
5.4.
Prohibited Transactions 
14
5.5.
Restrictions on the Authority of the General Partner. 
14
5.6.
Indemnification and Contribution 
15
2
ARTICLE VI Capital Commitments, Defaults and Accounts; Aggregate Capital Contributions; Accounting 
and Valuation; Allocations; Reinvestment and Distributions 
18
6.1.
Capital Commitments, Defaults and Accounts. 
18
6.2.
Additional Capital Contributions 
19
6.3.
Fiscal and Taxable Year 
19
6.4.
Partners’ Capital Accounts 
20
6.5.
Allocation of Profits and Losses. 
20
6.6.
Distributions to Limited Partners. 
22
6.7.
Allocation in Case of Transfers 
25
6.8.
[           ] 
25
6.9.
Clawback 
25
6.10.
Modifications to Allocations and/or Distributions 
26
ARTICLE VII Sarbanes-Oxley Act; SOX Insider Preferred Interests; Modification of SOX Insiders’ 
Interests; Limitation on Pledges 
26
7.1.
Purchase of SOX Insider Preferred Interests; Issuance of SOX Insider Preferred Interests.
26
7.2.
Terms 
26
7.3.
Modifications of SOX Insiders’ Interests; Voting Rights of SOX Insider Preferred 
Interests. 
27
ARTICLE VIII Transferability of Limited Partners’ Interests; Consequences of Departure, Breach of GS 
Agreements, etc. 
27
8.1.
Restrictions on Transfer. 
27
8.2.
Certain Conditions 
28
8.3.
Transferee’s Agreement to be Bound; Effective Date of Transfer. 
28
8.4.
Substituted Partners. 
29
8.5.
Indemnity; Expenses of Transfer. 
29
8.6.
Death or Incapacity of Limited Partner, etc.; Acquisition of Such Partner’s Interest by the 
General Partner. 
29
8.7.
Consequences of Departure, Breach of GS Agreements, etc 
30
8.8.
General Partner Purchase 
36
8.9.
Withdrawal of Limited Partners 
37
8.10.
Withdrawal or Substitution of the General Partner 
38
ARTICLE IX Winding-up, Dissolution and Liquidation of the Fund 
38
9.1.
Events Causing Winding-up and Dissolution 
38
9.2.
Liquidation 
39
9.3.
Potential Early Liquidation of Investments 
39
ARTICLE X Books and Records; Accounting; Valuation; Tax Matters and Elections 
40
10.1.
Books and Records 
40
3
10.2.
Accounting Basis 
40
10.3.
Bank Accounts 
40
10.4.
Reports. 
40
10.5.
Tax Matters and Elections. 
40
ARTICLE XI Miscellaneous Provisions 
43
11.1.
Appointment of the General Partner as Attorney-in-Fact. 
43
11.2.
Amendments to this Agreement. 
44
11.3.
Arbitration 
47
11.4.
Notices 
48
11.5.
Binding Provisions 
48
11.6.
Governing Law 
48
11.7.
Counterparts 
48
11.8.
Severability of Provisions 
48
11.9.
Interpretation 
48
11.10.
Entire Agreement 
49
11.11.
Headings 
49
11.12.
Further Assurances 
49
11.13.
Effectiveness 
49
11.14.
FCC Representations and Covenants 
49
11.15.
Compliance with Applicable Law 
50
11.16.
Confidentiality 
50
11.17.
Advisory Committee Authorization 
52
11.18.
Interests Constitute Article 8 Securities 
53
EXHIBIT
Exhibit A 
Information With Respect to the General Partner 
A-1
4
Index of Defined Terms
Section
Advisory Committee 
11.17(a)
Advisory Committee Indemnified Person 
5.6(a)
Advisory Committee Indemnified Persons 
5.6(a)
Affiliated Investor Entities 
Recitals
Agreement 
Preamble
AIFM Directive 
11.2(d)(xii)
AIFM Regulations 
11.2(d)(xii)
Allocation Period. 
6.5(a)
Alternative Investment Vehicles 
5.2(a)
Application, 
3.2(h)
Association with a Covered Enterprise 
8.7(q)
BHCA 
1.7
Borrowing Expenses 
6.5(f)(ii)
Capital Account 
6.4(a)
Carried Interest 
3.2(a)(iv)
Carried Interest Paying Funds 
3.2(a)(iv)
Carried Interest Tax Distribution Amount 
6.6(c)v)
Cause 
8.7(r)
Certificate of Limited Partnership 
Recitals
Class A Interests 
3.2(a)
Class A Limited Partners 
3.2(a)
Class O Interests 
3.2(a)
Class O Limited Partners 
3.2(a)
Class O Percentage 
6.5(f)(ix)
Class O Vesting Schedule 
8.7
Client 
8.7(s)
Code 
6.5(d)
Commencement of the Fund’s Operations 
8.7(t)
Communications Act 
11.14
Competitive Enterprise 
8.7(u)
Confidential Information 
11.16(a)
Corporate Portion 
5.3(c)
Covered Enterprise 
8.7(v)
Current Cash Flow 
5.3(d)
Default 
6.1(c)
Default Date 
6.1(c)
Default Price 
6.1(c)
Defaulting Limited Partner 
6.1(c)
Delaware Act 
Recitals
DEUCC 
11.18
Direct Partners 
5.3(b)
Dodd-Frank Act 
3.2(d)
Dutch Class O Limited Partner 
8.7(d)(ii)
Eligible Family Member 
8.7(a)
Eligible Investors 
Recitals
Engages in Solicitation 
8.7(w)
External Funds 
1.4(a)
5
Fails to Consider Risk 
8.7(x)
Fair Value 
8.7(i)
FATCA 
6.5(f)(x)6.5(f)(ix)
FCC 
11.14
FCC Rules 
11.14
FDIC 
8.7(d)(ii)
Financial Statement Value 
6.4(b)
Firm 
8.7(y)
Firm Activities 
8.7(v)
Firm Products or Services 
8.7(v)
Fund 
Recitals
Fund Asset 
5.3(a)
Fund Expenses 
2.6(a)
Fund Investment 
1.4(a)
Fund Investment Holding Corporation 
5.3(a)
Fund Investment Holding Partnership 
5.3(g)
Funds 
1.4(b)
GAAP 
6.4(b)
General Partner 
Preamble
German MRT 
8.7(d)(ii)
Goldman Sachs 
Recitals
GS Agreements 
8.7(d)(i)
GS Group 
Recitals
Indirect Partners 
5.3(b)
Initial Limited Partner 
3.1
In-kind Distributions 
6.6(d)
Institutional Limited Partners 
Recitals
Interest Rate 
8.7(j)
Interests 
3.2(a)
Investment Company Act 
8.2(d)
Investment Management Agreement 
5.1(c)(v)
Investment Manager 
2.3
Investment Vehicle 
1.4(b)
Investor Advisory Committee 
11.17(b)
IRS 
10.5(a)
Limited Partners 
3.2(a)
Loss 
5.6(b)
Losses 
5.6(b)
Management Indemnified Person 
5.6(a)
Management Indemnified Persons 
5.6(a)
Media Company 
11.14
Minimum Purchase Price 
8.7(i)
Net Contributed Capital 
8.7(i)
Net Proceeds from Investment Dispositions 
5.3(d)
Notice 
10.5(h)
Offering Memorandum 
2.3
Original Agreement 
Recitals
Original General Partner 
Preamble
Other Funds 
1.4(b)
Other Vehicle 
5.3(h)
Participating Interests 
3.2(a)
Participating Partners 
5.3(c)
Partners 
Preamble
6
Partnership Representative 
10.5(a)
Person 
6.5(f)(xiii)
Portfolio Company 
2.7(a)
Purchase Date 
8.7(k)
Remaining Portion 
5.3(c)
Required Withdrawal 
8.9
SEC 
3.2(h)
Securities Act 
8.2(f)
Selected Firm Personnel 
8.7(z)
Series 
1.9(f)
Series Supplement 
1.9(b)
Sharing Percentage 
3.2(a)(iv)
Solicit 
8.7(aa)
SOX 
7.1(a)
SOX § 402 
7.1(a)
SOX Insider Preferred Interests 
7.1(a)
SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners 
7.1(a)
SOX Insiders 
7.1(a)
Special Fund Investments 
5.3(c)
Special Percentage 
5.3(k)
Subsidiary 
1.4(a)
Suspension Period 
8.7(e)
Tax Cost 
10.5(f)
Third Party Fund 
5.1(d)(iii)
Third Party Information 
11.16(f)
Transfer 
8.1(a)
Transferee 
8.1(b)
Treasury Regulations 
6.5(d)
Underlying Fund 
1.4(a)
Underlying Fund Recyclable Proceeds 
6.1(a)
Unlevered Limited Partner Related Employee 
8.7(a)
Volcker Rule 
3.2(d)
7
8
AMENDED AND RESTATED
AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, dated as of [   ], by and 
among [   ], as general partner (the “General Partner”), the Persons who have signed this Amended and Restated 
Agreement of Limited Partnership (together with the subscription agreement or other related materials entered into 
by any Limited Partner, this “Agreement”), as limited partners (together with the General Partner, the “Partners”), 
the Initial Limited Partner and [   ] (the “Original General Partner”).
WHEREAS, the General Partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a 
Delaware corporation (“GS Group” and, together with Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and GS Group’s other 
subsidiaries and affiliates, including the General Partner, “Goldman Sachs”) or the “Firm”;
WHEREAS, the limited partners of the Fund primarily consist of (A) “Eligible Investors” who are (i) 
participants in the Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation Plan for fiscal year [   ], Participating Managing Directors, 
Senior Advisors, Extended Managing Directors of Goldman Sachs and certain other eligible investors; and/or (ii) the 
affiliated entities (“Affiliated Investor Entities”) of certain of the investors described in clause (i); (B) Goldman 
Sachs, upon the acquisition of interests in the Fund pursuant to Article VI and/or Article VIII; (C) the “Institutional 
Limited Partners,” which are one or more entities organized by Goldman Sachs primarily for investment by Eligible 
Investors in the Fund; and (D) SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners, who are the holders from time to time of 
SOX Insider Preferred Interests;
WHEREAS, Goldman Sachs caused the formation of the Fund for the benefit of the Limited Partners and 
the Limited Partners seek to pool investment resources under the sponsorship of Goldman Sachs; 
WHEREAS, the General Partner and the Initial Limited Partner formed a series limited partnership (the 
“Fund”) pursuant to the terms and provisions of an agreement of limited partnership (the “Original Agreement”), 
dated as of [   ], and the filing of the certificate of limited partnership of the Fund (the “Certificate of Limited 
Partnership”) in accordance with the statutes and laws of the State of Delaware, relating to limited partnerships, 
including the Limited Partnership Act of the State of Delaware (the “Delaware Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Partners and the Initial Limited Partner desire to amend and restate the terms and 
provisions of the Original Agreement to inter alia, admit [   ] as the General Partner and evidence the withdrawal of 
the Original General Partner.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements and covenants set forth herein and for 
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be 
legally bound hereby, the parties agree to amend and restate the Original Agreement in its entirety to read as 
follows:
Article I
Name and Place of Business; Powers;
Purpose; Term; Continuance and Qualification
1.1.
Name.  The name of the Fund shall be [   ] or such other name as the General Partner may from 
time to time designate.  The business of the Fund may be conducted under any other name deemed necessary or 
desirable by the General Partner in order to comply with local law.
1.2.
Place of Business.  The principal place of business of the Fund shall be at [   ], and/or at such other 
place within or outside [   ] as the General Partner may hereafter designate in writing to the Limited Partners from 
time to time.
1
1.3.
Registered Office.  The initial address of the Fund’s registered office is [   ].
1.4.
Purpose
.
(a)
The purposes of the Fund are to engage in any lawful act or activity for which limited 
partnerships may be formed under the Delaware Act, including investing all or substantially all of its committed 
capital in a diversified set of equity-oriented funds sponsored by Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth Management, as is 
more fully described in the Offering Memorandum (any such investment of any type held, directly or indirectly, by 
the Fund, any wholly or partly owned subsidiary (a “Subsidiary”), any Investment Vehicle or Alternative Investment 
Vehicle from time to time, a “Fund Investment”), and engaging in any other activities which may be directly or 
indirectly related or incidental to any of the foregoing.  In particular, the Fund expects to invest in: [   ] (collectively, 
the “Underlying Funds” and each, separately, an a “Underlying Fund”).  In the sole discretion of the General 
Partner, the Fund may determine not to invest in one or more of the Underlying Funds, or may invest in other 
underlying funds.  The Underlying Funds are expected to invest alongside funds formed for clients of Goldman 
Sachs (the “External Funds”).
(b)
The Fund, together with one or more of [   ], the “Funds”), may not invest in an 
Underlying Fund (or its offshore analogue), or will invest in an Underlying Fund using different structures.  The 
Underlying Funds may make their investments through one or more U.S. or non-U.S. investment or finance vehicles 
organized by or for the applicable Underlying Fund, that may be wholly owned by such Underlying Fund or owned 
by the applicable Underlying Fund together with any wholly or partially owned Subsidiary, Alternative Investment 
Vehicles, other investment funds or vehicles managed by Goldman Sachs (the “Other Funds”), and/or other 
investors (each, together with their respective permitted assignees or designees, an “Investment Vehicle”).
(c)
It is understood by all the parties hereto that the interests of the clients of Goldman Sachs 
and the legal and ethical obligations of Goldman Sachs to its clients are paramount and prior to the interests of the 
Fund or any Partners thereof.  Consequently, the Fund shall not make any investment which Goldman Sachs 
determines to be inappropriate in light of such obligations.  The Fund shall promptly dispose of any investment 
which Goldman Sachs deems to be inappropriate in light of such obligations.  The Fund shall not enter into any 
transaction with any Person, nor accept any investment opportunity from any Person, if deemed by Goldman Sachs 
to be inappropriate in light of such obligations.
1.5.
Status for U.S. Federal Income Tax Purposes.  The Fund and, if established, each Series intends, 
and shall take all appropriate steps, to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, in the 
discretion of the General Partner, for purposes of the tax laws of any other relevant jurisdiction for which such 
treatment is available.
1.6.
Powers and Authority.  The Fund and each Series shall possess and may exercise all powers, 
authority and privileges granted by the Delaware Act, any other law or this Agreement, including the power and 
authority to perform any act or carry out any activity or transaction contemplated by or in furtherance of this 
Agreement or as is in the General Partner’s determination necessary, appropriate, desirable, incidental or convenient 
to or for the furtherance or accomplishment of the foregoing objectives and purposes.
1.7.
Term.  Subject to the provisions of Section 9.1, the Fund will dissolve and terminate one (1) year 
after the date by which all of the Fund’s investments have been liquidated and the Fund’s obligations (including, 
without limitation, contingent obligations) have been terminated (or reasonable provision has been otherwise made 
for such obligations), provided that the General Partner may amend this Agreement without the consent of the 
Limited Partners:  (a) in accordance with Section 11.2(d)(vii), to set the date on which the Fund shall dissolve and 
terminate on any date not later than the fifteenth anniversary of the formation of the Fund and (b) to limit the 
duration of the Fund’s investments in any Fund Assets to a period of 15 years to satisfy certain requirements under 
the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), subject in all cases to the General 
Partner’s right, pursuant to Section 9.1, to liquidate the Fund at any time. 
1.8.
Continuance/Qualification.  In the event that it shall be necessary for the Fund to exist or qualify 
to do business under the laws of any jurisdiction other than or in addition to the State of Delaware, the parties hereby 
2
agree that the Fund shall take such action as may be necessary to exist or qualify to do business in any state in which 
such existence or qualification shall be required; provided, that, in any such event the Fund shall at all times 
continue to be a limited partnership formed under and governed by the provisions of the Delaware Act.
1.9.
Establishment of Series.
(a)
Each Limited Partner understands and acknowledges that this Agreement grants the 
General Partner the right to establish one or more separate Series of partners or partnership interests pursuant to 
Section 17-218 of the Delaware Act, with such terms as may be determined by the General Partner in its sole 
discretion.  Each Limited Partner understands and acknowledges that such Limited Partner may not hold an interest 
in each Series.  In addition, each Limited Partner understands and acknowledges that, except as expressly provided 
in this Agreement, such Limited Partner has no right to participate, and the General Partner has no duty or obligation 
to offer to such Limited Partner the right to participate, in any Series.
(b)
The terms of each Series shall be as set forth in this Agreement, and any supplement to 
this Agreement relating to a particular Series (each, a “Series Supplement”).  For all purposes of the Delaware Act, 
this Agreement together with each Series Supplement, if any, constitute the “partnership agreement” of the Fund 
within the meaning of the Delaware Act.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the 
terms and provisions of a Series Supplement may have the effect of altering, supplementing or amending the terms 
and provisions of this Agreement, and to the extent that any of the terms or provisions of a Series Supplement 
conflict with any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement, the terms or provisions of such Series Supplement 
shall control with respect to such Series.  As established from time to time in accordance with this Agreement, a 
Series may be designated as having separate rights, powers or duties with respect to specified assets, property, 
obligations or liabilities or profits and losses associated with specified assets, property, obligations or liabilities and, 
to the extent provided in this Agreement or the Series Supplement that corresponds to such Series, as having a 
separate business purpose or investment objective than the Fund or any other Series.  A Person may be admitted as a 
limited partner of the Fund associated with more than one Series.  The General Partner shall be the sole general 
partner of the Fund associated with each Series.
(c)
All capital contributions, assets, income, fees, earnings, profits and proceeds held or 
received by the Fund in respect of a Series shall be deemed to be and may be referred to herein as “assets belonging 
to” that Series (and to no other Series) for all purposes hereof.
(d)
The assets belonging to a particular Series shall be so recorded upon the books of the 
Fund, and shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Limited Partners of such Series.  The assets belonging to each 
particular Series shall be charged with the liabilities of that Series, and with all expenses, costs, charges and reserves 
attributable to that Series.  The debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred, contracted for or otherwise 
existing with respect to a particular Series shall be enforceable against the assets belonging to such Series only, and 
not against the assets of the Fund generally or of any other Series.  No Limited Partner or former Limited Partner of 
any Series shall have any claim on or right to any assets allocated or belonging to any other Series.
(e)
Separate and distinct records shall be maintained by the Fund for each Series and the 
assets associated with or belonging to any such Series shall be held and accounted for separately from the assets of 
the Fund or of any other Series.  To the fullest extent permitted under the Delaware Act, the Limited Partners of a 
Series shall only have access to the records of such Series, including the Series Supplement that corresponds to such 
Series.
(f)
“Series” shall mean any separate series of partners or partnership interests established by 
the General Partner pursuant to Section 17-218 of the Delaware Act and this Section 1.9.  References in this 
Agreement to the “Fund” shall, to the extent the context requires, be deemed to be references to one or more Series.
3
Article II
The General Partner;
Relationship with Goldman Sachs
2.1.
The General Partner.  The name, registered office, business address and capital commitment of the 
General Partner are set forth on Exhibit A hereto, as amended from time to time, and are incorporated herein by 
reference.  The General Partner shall acquire a Class O Interest as a Partner in exchange for its capital commitment.  
Goldman Sachs is authorized to admit any Person to the Fund as a general partner, to cause the withdrawal of any 
general partner of the Fund and to effect the transfer of a general partner interest from any general partner to any 
successor general partner, subject to the restrictions set forth herein.  All references in this Agreement to the General 
Partner shall be deemed to include [   ] and any successor general partner.
2.2.
Management.  The General Partner shall have the exclusive right to manage, conduct and control 
the affairs of the Fund.  To the extent permitted by the General Partner’s organizational documents, the General 
Partner is authorized at any time to designate one or more managers or successor managers, to remove any manager 
or successor manager and to designate a replacement manager or managers.
2.3.
Delegation of Managerial Authority.  It is understood that the General Partner may delegate any or 
all of its duties, rights and responsibilities in respect of the Fund (other than investment decisions) to its managers, 
officers, affiliates and/or to third parties selected by the General Partner.  In addition, subject to guidelines in 
keeping with the investment objectives and policies of the Fund as set forth in the confidential offering 
memorandum relating to the Fund, dated [   ] (as supplemented from time to time, the “Offering Memorandum”), the 
General Partner may delegate final investment decisions to committees of one or more officers, directors or 
employees of Goldman Sachs.  The General Partner initially delegates managerial authority to [   ] (the “Investment 
Manager”), and shall, on behalf of and in the name of the Fund, enter into an investment management agreement 
with the Investment Manager, all without the further approval of any Limited Partner.  It is understood that the 
Investment Manager may delegate its managerial authority to other or additional officers, directors or employees of 
Goldman Sachs.  In addition, the General Partner hereby admits [   ] as a Limited Partner in the Fund to serve as the 
“qualified institutional investor” in respect of the Fund for purposes of non-U.S. securities laws.  The Limited 
Partners acknowledge and agree that, so long as such delegation remains in effect, (i) the General Partner shall have 
no responsibility for making any investment, disposition or management decisions on behalf of the Fund, and (ii) the 
Investment Manager shall have sole authority to make such investment, disposition and management decisions, 
including the authority to approve all investments in Underlying Funds.
2.4.
No Compensation of Members and Officers.  Neither the members of any investment committee 
that evaluates potential investments in Underlying Funds nor the officers of the General Partner shall be entitled to 
receive any compensation from the Fund for their services.
2.5.
Reliance by Third Parties.  Persons dealing with the Fund are entitled to rely conclusively upon a 
certificate of the General Partner to the effect that it is then acting as the General Partner and upon the power and 
authority of the General Partner and of any Person to whom the General Partner may have delegated all or part of 
such power and authority as herein set forth.
2.6.
Services by Goldman Sachs; Expenses.
(a)
The Fund (and each of the Other Funds) shall be responsible for its pro rata share (based 
on its aggregate capital commitments as a proportion of the aggregate capital commitments to the Fund and 
the Other Funds) of all the expenses and fees incurred in connection with (1) the organization of, and the 
offering of limited partnership interests in the Fund and the Other Funds and (2) any Fund Expenses 
incurred by the Fund; provided that, in circumstances where the General Partner reasonably believes that 
such expenses and fees allocated to the Fund and/or the Other Funds pursuant to the foregoing procedures 
would produce an inequitable result, or are directly attributable or allocable to the Fund and/or an Other 
Fund, the General Partner may allocate such expenses and fees to the Fund or such Other Fund, as it 
determines in its sole discretion, in a fair and equitable manner, which may not be on a pro rata basis.  All 
Fund Expenses shall be paid out of capital contributions, borrowings or proceeds or other cash funds of the 
Fund that are determined by the General Partner to be available for such purpose; provided that the General 
Partner and/or the Investment Manager may advance funds or arrange for one of its affiliates to advance 
funds to the Fund for the payment of Fund Expenses and the General Partner or such affiliate shall be 
entitled to the reimbursement, without interest, of any funds so advanced.  As used herein, “Fund 
4
Expenses” shall include, whether incurred directly or indirectly by or on behalf of the Fund, including by 
the Investment Manager, or any Investment Vehicle, but not be limited to, the following (to the extent not 
reimbursed by the Portfolio Companies or any other Person):1
(i)
all costs and expenses2 necessary to register or qualify the Fund, and, if 
established, any Series, under any applicable laws, rule or directive or any other regulatory 
requirement, including U.S. federal or state or foreign laws, to maintain such registrations or 
qualifications or to obtain or maintain exemptions under such laws, or compliance with the 
foregoing requirements by Goldman Sachs or its affiliates to the extent such compliance relates to 
the Fund’s activities;
(ii)
all costs and expenses charged to the Fund, including all fees or expenses that 
the General Partner determines to be related to the acquisition or potential acquisition, holding or 
disposing of investments and potential investments in the Underlying Funds as well as any other 
taxes, governmental charges and other costs and expenses associated with Fund Investments and 
obtaining leverage;
(iii)
administration of the Fund, including (x) all external legal, tax and accounting 
costs and expenses, including costs and expenses for preparation of annual audited financial 
statements, tax return preparation (or preparation of other tax filings or elections), routine tax and 
legal advice, other tax-related expenses, including any expenses incurred by the Partnership 
Representative, external insurance premiums charged to the Fund (which insurance premiums may 
cover numerous Goldman Sachs advisory accounts, in which case the Goldman Sachs advisory 
accounts shall be allocated a share of such premiums), wire transfer fees, mailing costs, 
amendments to this Agreement and any costs and expenses related to winding-up, dissolution, 
liquidation or termination of the Fund and (y) fees and expenses charged to the Fund in connection 
with services performed by internal staff of Goldman Sachs and/or entities affiliated with 
Goldman Sachs for internal accounting services in an amount equal to $[   ] per each Fund per 
quarter;
(iv)
all costs and expenses incurred in relation to the registration of any Fund 
Investments in the name of the Fund or its nominee or the custody of the documents of title thereto 
(including bank charges, insurance of documents of title against loss in shipment, transit or 
otherwise and charges made by agents of the Fund for retaining documents in safe custody);
(v)
indemnification and contribution obligations of the Fund, including legal advice 
and other external costs and expenses with respect to any existing or potential claim, dispute or 
litigation and the amount of any judgment or settlement paid in connection therewith; and
(vi)
any other costs and expenses, as reasonably determined by the Investment 
Manager in good faith, that may be authorized by this Agreement or as may be necessary or 
appropriate in managing the Fund’s business.
(b)
[           ]  In addition, the Limited Partners will indirectly bear a proportionate share of 
the organizational and operating fees and expenses of the Underlying Funds.  Where appropriate, the 
General Partner may specifically allocate a portion of Fund Expenses to one or more particular Limited 
Partners.
5
1 In all relevant cases, including any travel and entertainment expenses, including private air travel when deemed appropriate by 
the General Partner in its reasonable discretion (after taking into account the risks associated with public health crises such as 
the COVID-19 pandemic).  
2 In all relevant cases, costs shall include fees for purpose of the definition of “Fund Expenses.”
(c)
It is understood that stock brokerage and investment advisory services for the Fund 
generally will be performed, and other administrative and similar services for the Fund may be performed, 
by Goldman Sachs.  In connection with investments in money market funds advised or administered by 
Goldman Sachs, the assets will be subject to the customary advising and/or administrative fee charged to 
and paid by third party customers participating in the same fund.  In addition, Goldman Sachs may, to the 
extent permitted by law, require the Fund to bear customary commissions and fees for brokerage and other 
services performed by Goldman Sachs [           ].  
2.7.
Investment Banking and Other Activities.  The Limited Partners acknowledge and agree that, 
subject to applicable law:
(a)
the Investment Manager, the General Partner or any of their agents or affiliates (on behalf 
of the Fund) and any entity in which an Underlying Fund invests, directly or indirectly (each, a “Portfolio 
Company” ) may engage Goldman Sachs (and Goldman Sachs may act in its individual capacity and for its own 
account) as investment bankers, underwriters, financial advisors, asset managers, placement agents, selling agents, 
or brokers, dealers or traders in securities (including warrants and options), real estate, hedging and derivative 
instruments, structured financial products, foreign exchange and commodities, including in connection with the 
acquisition, holding, disposition, liquidation or bankruptcy of any investment;
(b)
Goldman Sachs may make interest-bearing loans to Portfolio Companies and the Fund, 
and may act as agent in connection with the placement or syndication of indebtedness or other instruments or 
securities of Portfolio Companies and the Fund, and may acquire, hold or dispose of any notes, debt securities, other 
evidences of indebtedness or other instruments or securities of Portfolio Companies and the Fund;
(c)
Goldman Sachs has established and may establish entities that may provide investment, 
fund accounting, finance, loan servicing, asset management, portfolio management, risk management, cash 
management, due diligence, tax coordination, information technology and/or administrative or other services to one 
or more other Goldman Sachs entities;
(d)
the Fund, any Portfolio Companies and any competitor or counterparty of any of the 
foregoing, may pay, and Goldman Sachs may receive and retain from the Fund, Portfolio Companies and any 
competitor or counterparty of any of the foregoing, fees (including sponsor fees), commissions, discounts, interest 
and other sums, and Goldman Sachs may earn profits in connection with any of the foregoing;
(e)
Goldman Sachs may sponsor, manage or advise investment funds or vehicles that may 
seek to make private investments in securities or other instruments, sectors or strategies in which the Fund may 
invest, and may create subsequent funds (including any successor fund), and Goldman Sachs may earn profits in 
connection therewith;
(f)
Goldman Sachs may invest in investments of the type sought by the Fund or any Portfolio 
Company, and Goldman Sachs may earn profits in connection therewith; and
(g)
neither the Fund nor any Limited Partner shall have any interest in any such profits, fees, 
commissions, discounts, interest and other sums by virtue of this Agreement or the partnership relation created 
hereby and any such amounts shall not reduce the [           ] or otherwise be shared with the Fund or the Limited 
Partners; provided, that in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) above, with respect to services rendered to the 
Fund, the services rendered are determined by the General Partner in good faith to be appropriate and useful; the 
Persons or entities rendering such services are qualified to do so and the fees or other amounts charged in respect of 
such services are determined by the General Partner to be commercially reasonable.
6
Article III
Limited Partners
3.1.
Initial Limited Partner.  The initial limited partner (the “Initial Limited Partner”) has become such 
only for the purpose of organizing the Fund and has made a capital commitment of $[   ] to the Fund.  On the first 
day of admission of additional Limited Partners, the Initial Limited Partner shall withdraw from the Fund, the Initial 
Limited Partner’s funded capital (if any) shall be returned, together with a return thereon (if any), in accordance with 
the Original Agreement, and the Initial Limited Partner shall have no other rights, obligations or liabilities 
whatsoever with respect to the Fund in the Initial Limited Partner’s capacity as Initial Limited Partner.
Unless the context otherwise specifically requires, references in this Agreement to the Limited Partners, 
their capital and their rights and obligations shall not be references to the Initial Limited Partner.
3.2.
Additional Limited Partners; Classes of Interests.
(a)
The General Partner is authorized to admit additional limited partners, including Limited 
Partners and SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners, to the Fund pursuant to the terms contained in the Offering 
Memorandum and this Agreement.  A Person shall be admitted as a Limited Partner of the Fund at the time 
that: (i) this Agreement, a counterpart hereof or an instrument incorporating by reference the terms of this 
Agreement is executed by or on behalf of such Person, the General Partner and each other Limited Partner and (ii) 
the General Partner consents to the admission of such Person as a Limited Partner.
The Fund generally shall issue Class A limited partnership interests (“Class A Interests”) [           ] 
and/or Class O limited partnership interests (“Class O Interests”) to each subscribing Eligible Investor and 
Institutional Limited Partner.  Such Eligible Investors and Institutional Limited Partners holding Class A Interests 
and any other holder of Class A Interests shall be referred to as “Class A Limited Partners,” [           ] and such 
Eligible Investors and Institutional Limited Partners holding Class O Interests and any other holder of Class O 
Interests shall be referred to as “Class O Limited Partners.”  The General Partner, Goldman Sachs or their affiliates 
are also authorized to issue or to convert the interest, or a portion thereof, of any Class A Limited Partner [           ] 
into separate classes of limited partnership interests, to be referred to as [           ] and collectively, with the Class A 
Interests [           ], together with the Class O Interests, are the “Participating Interests,” and, together with SOX 
Insider Preferred Interests, the “Interests,” and the holders thereof, other than the General Partner, the “Limited 
Partners”).
With respect to the Interests:
(i)
[           ]
(ii)
[           ]
(iii)
[           ]
(iv)
Class O Interests.  The Class O Interests shall, subject to the final sentence of 
this Section 3.2(a)(iv), share in a portion (such portion, the “Sharing Percentage”) of any carried interest 
(the “Carried Interest”) that is earned in respect of one or more (but not necessarily all) of the External 
Funds (as determined, and subject to change, in the General Partner’s sole discretion) as well as other 
external funds, entities, separate accounts and/or single investor vehicles managed or advised by [   ], in 
each case, as determined by Goldman Sachs in its sole discretion (all such funds, and (as the context 
requires) any subsidiary investment vehicles and/or alternative investment vehicles of such external funds, 
entities, separate accounts and/or single investor vehicles in which the Fund will acquire, directly or 
indirectly, a special limited partnership or equivalent interest, the “Carried Interest Paying Funds”).  The 
Class O Interests shall not otherwise share in the profits and losses from the Underlying Funds’ investment 
7
activities and operations and will not be subject to a management fee or carried interest.  The Sharing 
Percentage may be adjusted from time to time, including in connection with adjustments as described in 
Section 6.6(c)(vi) below.  The Carried Interest will not include any amounts received in respect of 
distributions from the Carried Interest Paying Funds of Goldman Sachs’ direct or indirect capital 
investment in the Carried Interest Paying Funds, any returns on Goldman Sachs’ investment in the Carried 
Interest Paying Funds (including carried interest with respect thereto) or in respect of any other amounts 
received from the Carried Interest Paying Funds other than the Carried Interest.
(b)
[           ]
(c)
[           ]
(d)
To the extent permitted by law, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (including its Section 619 known as the “Volcker Rule,” (the “Volcker Rule”)) as 
amended, together with the regulations promulgated thereunder (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), from time to time Goldman 
Sachs may (but is not obligated to) acquire Interests from Limited Partners who are no longer employees and in 
certain other circumstances.  Goldman Sachs may, but shall not be obligated to, offer these Interests on a 
discretionary basis to certain investors, including to Persons who are currently not Eligible Investors, but are Eligible 
Investors at such time.  To the extent that the General Partner, Goldman Sachs or any of their affiliates purchase or 
acquire an Interest, they shall be treated, for all purposes, as being the owner of that Interest, and entitled to the 
economics associated therewith.
(e)
Following the initial closing date and through such date as the General Partner shall 
determine, the General Partner is authorized to admit additional Eligible Investors and Institutional Limited Partners, 
including SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners, to the Fund and accept additional commitments from existing 
Limited Partners.  [           ]  At the time that any additional Limited Partners are admitted to the Fund, the Capital 
Accounts of the General Partner and/or Limited Partners other than such additional Limited Partners shall be fairly 
adjusted to give effect to the intent of the provisions of this Section 3.2(e).  [           ]
(f)
The manner of the offering of the Interests, the terms and conditions under which 
subscriptions for such Interests will be accepted, the manner of and conditions to the sale of Interests to subscribers 
therefor and the admission of such subscribers as additional Limited Partners will be as provided in the Offering 
Memorandum, their respective subscription agreements and this Agreement and subject to any provisions thereof 
and hereof.  Consistent with the foregoing and Articles VII and VIII, the Fund may also admit additional Limited 
Partners or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners.
(g)
The General Partner may, without the consent of any Limited Partner, amend this 
Agreement in order to create and offer one or more new Series or classes of interests, convert existing classes of 
interests or make any other changes necessary or advisable, in the determination of the General Partner, for purposes 
of allocating special opportunities, such as carry distributions, or otherwise, as determined by the General Partner in 
its sole discretion, in which case any such Series or classes of interests shall also be deemed an Interest.  In 
connection with the issuing of any additional Series or class of interests in the Fund in accordance with this Section 
3.2 (or the conversion of interests in accordance with this Section 3.2), the General Partner may amend this 
Agreement, without the consent of or notice to the Limited Partners, as necessary to provide for the establishment of 
the additional class or Series of interests in the Fund (including a class or Series issued upon conversion) and to 
reflect the economics of such additional class or Series of Interests and the impact on the existing Series, class or 
classes of interests in the Fund.
(h)
The General Partner may offer additional Series or classes of interests in the Fund to the 
Partners, in proportion to their Interests in the Fund, or otherwise.  In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of 
the application filed on [   ] with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) by Goldman Sachs seeking 
an order exempting the Fund from most, but not all, of the provisions of the Investment Company Act, as amended 
and/or supplemented (the “Application,” a copy of which will be furnished to Limited Partners upon written 
request), and any order approving the Application, and applicable law, including the Dodd-Frank Act (including the 
8
Volcker Rule), the General Partner may offer additional Series or classes of interests in the Fund, for subscription by 
other Eligible Investors and third parties, for any purpose, including to raise sufficient capital to fund expenses or 
meet the other obligations of the Fund if the Fund does not have sufficient funds to pay such expenses or meet such 
other obligations.
3.3.
List of Limited Partners; Investment Records.  The General Partner shall maintain a list, as 
amended from time to time, of Limited Partners setting forth the name, residence or business address, capital 
commitment and class of each Limited Partner.
3.4.
No Management by Limited Partners.  No Limited Partner, in its capacity as a limited partner of 
the Fund, shall participate in the management, control and conduct of the business of the Fund, transact any business 
in the Fund’s name, have the power to sign documents for or otherwise bind the Fund, or deal with any Persons who 
are not Partners on behalf of the Fund.
3.5.
[           ]
Article IV
Liability of Partners
4.1.
General Partner.  Except as provided in Section 6.1(a), the General Partner shall not be required to 
contribute to the capital of, or loan to, the Fund any funds.  Neither the General Partner nor any of its affiliates shall 
have any personal liability for the return or repayment of the capital contribution of any Limited Partner.  Except as 
provided herein or by the Delaware Act, the General Partner shall have the liabilities of a partner in a partnership 
without limited partners.
4.2.
Limited Partners.  In no event shall any Limited Partner (a) be obligated to make any contribution 
or payment to the Fund or Goldman Sachs, except as expressly provided under his, her or its subscription agreement 
or this Agreement or (b) have any personal liability for the repayment or discharge of debts and obligations of the 
Fund, except in each case of clause (a) or (b), as provided under the Delaware Act.
[           ]
Article V
Powers of General Partner; Prohibited Transactions
and Restrictions; Duties of General Partner; Indemnification and Contribution
5.1.
Powers of the General Partner.  In addition to and not in limitation of any rights and powers 
conferred by law or other provisions of this Agreement, and except as limited, restricted or prohibited by the express 
provisions of this Agreement, including Section 5.5, the General Partner (and any of its assignees or designees) shall 
have and may exercise on behalf of itself, the Fund or any entity controlled or owned by the Fund all powers and 
rights necessary, proper, convenient or advisable (as determined by the General Partner) to effectuate and carry out 
the purpose, business and objectives of the Fund or any entity controlled by the Fund.  Such powers shall include the 
following powers, which may be carried out by the General Partner or directly or indirectly through the Fund or one 
or more Investment Vehicles or other wholly or partly owned subsidiaries by the General Partner, on behalf of the 
Fund or any entities controlled or owned by the Fund, in each case, to the extent permitted by applicable law 
including the Dodd-Frank Act (including the Volcker Rule):
(a)
to invest the capital contributions of the Partners (after setting aside suitable reserves) and 
reinvest proceeds of the Fund in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(b)
to purchase or otherwise acquire, to invest in, to hold for investment, to sell, exchange or 
convert or otherwise dispose of, to mortgage, to grant security interests over, to pledge or otherwise deal in, (i) 
capital stock, pre-organization certificates and subscriptions; (ii) warrants, partnership interests, equity interests in 
trusts and limited liability companies, convertible debt securities and other equity and equity-related securities and 
similar securities or instruments; (iii) mezzanine debt, subordinated debt, notes (including notes issued pursuant to 
indentures, note purchase agreements and other credit facilities), loans, and other debt instruments and securities, 
and other evidences of indebtedness (whether secured or unsecured and including loans acquired with or without 
9
equity or equity related securities); (iv) preferred stock; (v) convertible securities and forward, swap and option 
contracts, short sales, or any other financial instruments with similar characteristics (including interest rate swaps, 
exchanges and caps, collars, floors, currency options, futures and options on futures, commodity swaps and 
commodity options, total return swaps, back to back agreements and/or similar agreements) or participation interests 
in respect thereof; (vi) trust receipts; and (vii) assets and other property, including real property, intellectual 
property, and property leased or operating under a concession from a regulatory body or a sovereign government; 
and in the case of securities, regardless of whether such securities are readily marketable or not and whether of a 
speculative nature or not, and in rights and options relating thereto and/or to exercise all rights, powers, privileges, 
and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the Fund (including (i) 
any voting rights and other rights of the Fund as a security holder or as party to a shareholder or similar agreement 
and (ii) rights to elect to adjust the tax basis of Fund assets);
(c)
to enter into, make and perform all such contracts and other undertakings, and engage in 
all such activities and transactions (including financings), as the General Partner may deem necessary or advisable 
for or incidental to the carrying out of the foregoing objects and purposes, including:
(i)
to pursue, negotiate and enter into transactions with respect to Fund Assets and, 
in connection therewith, to facilitate investments in Portfolio Companies, including providing or arranging 
for financing for investments in Portfolio Companies;
(ii)
either by itself or by contract with others, including a corporation, partnership or 
limited liability company whose shareholders, partners, members, directors, officers or employees are 
shareholders, partners, members, directors, officers or employees of the General Partner or any affiliate of 
the General Partner, to maintain for the conduct of the Fund’s affairs one or more offices and in connection 
therewith to rent or acquire office space, engage personnel, whether part-time or full-time, and to do, or 
cause to be done, such other acts as the General Partner may deem necessary or desirable in connection 
with the maintenance and administration of the affairs of the Fund;
(iii)
to form, or cause the Fund to join with one or more of the Other Funds to form, 
one or more corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, or other appropriate entities (including 
Investment Vehicles) for the purpose of financing, making, holding or disposing of any investment or 
investments (including one or more such entities formed for the purposes contemplated by Section 5.2), 
holding commitments of the Partners and receiving the proceeds of draws thereon, or incurring 
indebtedness for borrowed money, to cause any such entities to issue common or preferred equity interests 
or evidences of indebtedness or other debt interests; 
(iv)
to engage independent attorneys, accountants, consultants, appraisers and such 
other Persons as the General Partner may deem necessary or desirable; and 
(v)
to execute and deliver the investment management agreement (the “Investment 
Management Agreement”) on behalf of the Fund;
(d)
to cause the Fund to make any investment, or engage in any transaction, that is permitted 
by the Application or any order approving the Application, including:
(i)
permitting Goldman Sachs, acting as principal, to engage in any transaction 
directly or indirectly with the Fund or any entity controlled by the Fund;
(ii)
causing the Fund to invest in any entity or engage in any transaction with any 
entity, acting as principal, (A) in which the Fund, any entity controlled by the Fund or Goldman Sachs has 
invested or will invest, or (B) with which the Fund, any entity controlled by the Fund or Goldman Sachs is 
or will become otherwise affiliated;
10
(iii)
causing the Fund or any entity controlled by the Fund to engage in any 
transaction directly or indirectly with any partner or other investor in an Investment Vehicle or account in 
which Persons who are not affiliated with Goldman Sachs may invest and over which a Goldman Sachs 
entity exercises investment discretion (a “Third Party Fund”) acting as principal;
(iv)
causing the Fund to engage in transactions in which affiliated Persons of the 
Fund or affiliated Persons of any of those Persons (including any partner or investor in a Third Party Fund) 
may also be participants; and
(v)
permitting Goldman Sachs, acting as an agent or broker, to receive placement 
fees, advisory fees, commissions or other compensation from the Fund or a Portfolio Company or any 
entity controlled by the Fund or a Portfolio Company;
(e)
to make temporary investments of Fund capital in all types of securities, including short-
term U.S. government and government agency securities, certificates of deposit, interest-bearing deposits in United 
States banks, securities issued by or on behalf of states, municipalities and their instrumentalities, the interest from 
which is exempt from U.S. federal income tax, prime-grade commercial paper and securities issued by other 
investment companies (including unit investment trusts and taxable and tax-exempt money market funds sponsored 
and/or advised by affiliates of the General Partner), prior to long-term investment or pending cash distributions to 
the Partners;
(f)
to perform all acts and file all documents, including tax returns and registration 
statements, necessary or advisable to effect compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations applicable to the 
Fund or the conduct of the Fund’s business and to conduct all other tax affairs of the Fund (including elections and 
audits);
(g)
to organize, invest in and conduct business through one or more Investment Vehicles or 
other wholly or partly owned subsidiaries;
(h)
to open, maintain and close bank, money market, brokerage and other accounts (and 
make deposits therein, withdrawals therefrom and draw checks or other orders thereon) whether located inside or 
outside the United States, in the Fund’s name;
(i)
to cause securities owned by the Fund to be registered in the Fund’s name or in the name 
of a bank’s nominee or to be held in street name, as the General Partner shall elect;
(j)
to incur and pay on behalf of the Fund all expenses necessary for or incidental to the 
Fund’s business, and, to the extent that funds of the Fund are available or callable, pay and establish reserves in 
respect of, all expenses, debts and obligations of the Fund;
(k)
to execute, acknowledge, deliver, seal, file and record all instruments, exercise all voting 
or other rights and collect dividends and other income on the assets of the Fund;
(l)
to employ and dismiss from employment any and all financial advisors, underwriters, 
investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, consultants, appraisers, asset managers or custodians of the assets of the 
Fund or other agents (who may be officers of the General Partner or the Fund), to represent, audit the books of, and 
provide other appropriate services to the Fund, on such terms and for such compensation as the General Partner may 
determine, whether or not any such Person is an affiliate of the General Partner or otherwise employed by any 
affiliate of the General Partner, the General Partner being expressly authorized to engage any affiliate of the General 
Partner to act in any such capacity;
(m)
to submit any Fund claim or liability to arbitration or reference, or agree to submit any 
future Fund claims or liabilities to arbitration or reference;
11
(n)
to bring and defend actions at law or in equity;
(o)
to enter into, execute, supplement, acknowledge and deliver any and all contracts, 
agreements, guarantees, indemnities or other instruments (including insurance policies and contracts, of any type 
and coverage) and make commitments (including guarantees and indemnities) on behalf of the Fund with and to any 
party, including Goldman Sachs (except that the Fund shall not lend the Fund’s money to any individual Partner) 
and, in general to do and perform all acts which may be necessary, advisable, suitable or proper for the conduct of 
the Fund’s business and for the carrying out of the purposes and objectives hereinbefore enumerated and to give 
effect to any of the provisions of this Agreement, including the delegation to any Person or Persons of such 
functions and authority as the General Partner may determine;
(p)
to utilize financial instruments, including forward contracts, options and swaps, caps, 
collars and floors and other derivative instruments;
(q)
to lend, either with or without security, any securities, funds or other properties of the 
Fund and borrow or raise funds and secure the payment of obligations of the Fund by pledges, charges or 
hypothecation or granting of security interests (including, without limitation, the General Partner granting security 
interest over and/or assigning its right to call unfunded capital commitments and accept capital contributions) of or 
over all or any part of the property or rights of the Fund, and to exercise any and all rights of the Fund as a creditor 
or as a party to a credit or similar agreement;
(r)
to effect conversions, issuances and purchases of Interests under certain circumstances;
(s)
to make distributions to Partners in cash or (to the extent permitted hereunder) otherwise;
(t)
to determine the accounting methods and conventions to be used in the preparation of any 
accounting or financial records of the Fund; 
(u)
to manage the Fund’s investments, including the administration of Fund investments and 
the realization of those Fund Investments; and
(v)
to take all actions necessary to, in connection with, or incidental to any of the foregoing.
Each of the Partners agrees that subject to applicable law, all determinations, decisions, and actions made or 
taken by or on behalf of the General Partner in good faith and in accordance with this Agreement shall be conclusive 
and absolutely binding upon the Fund, the Partners, and their respective successors, assigns, and personal 
representatives.
5.2.
Alternative Investment Vehicles.
(a)
Based on legal, tax, regulatory and other structuring considerations, in connection with 
particular Fund Investments, the General Partner, in coordination with the Investment Manager, may create one or 
more “Alternative Investment Vehicles”) for purposes of making, holding or disposing of one or more Fund 
Investments.  An Alternative Investment Vehicle may be a parallel partnership, corporation or other entity or such 
an entity that invests in the Fund.  [           ]  The economic terms of any Alternative Investment Vehicle shall be 
substantially similar in all material respects to those of the Fund; provided that the General Partner or the Investment 
Manager may vary such terms based on the structure of legal, tax and regulatory considerations; and provided, 
further, that such Alternative Investment Vehicle’s economic provisions may not be integrated with those of the 
Fund.  Any such Alternative Investment Vehicle will be structured in a manner whereby the Limited Partners 
[           ] participating in such Alternative Investment Vehicle shall bear the incremental costs of the alternative 
12
arrangement (including taxes) and such costs will be taken into consideration in the distribution waterfall for such 
Alternative Investment Vehicle.
(b)
The economic and other terms of any Alternative Investment Vehicle may vary from the 
terms of this Agreement based in part on the structure of the relevant transaction, legal requirements, tax, regulatory 
or other considerations, as determined by the General Partner.  In the event that the General Partner forms one or 
more Alternative Investment Vehicles, the provisions of this Agreement (including as to allocations, distributions, 
costs and expenses), as well as the operative agreements of any such Alternative Investment Vehicles, shall be 
interpreted as determined by the General Partner as necessary and appropriate to give effect to the intended 
economic relationship set out in this Agreement and other agreements between the applicable parties [           ] 
among the Limited Partners [           ] with respect to the activities and investments of the Alternative Investment 
Vehicle(s) and the Fund.  [           ]  
5.3.
Fund Investment Holding Entities.
(a)
The Fund may invest directly or indirectly in one or more corporations or other 
appropriate entities that will elect to be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes (each, a “Fund 
Investment Holding Corporation”), for the purpose of holding the pro rata share of any Indirect Partner of any Fund 
Investment and/or its entitlement to Carried Interest with respect to any Fund Investment (any such capital interest 
and/or entitlement to Carried Interest, as applicable, a “Fund Asset” ).
(b)
The General Partner may, but shall not be required to, cause one or more Partner’s pro 
rata share of any Fund Asset to be held, directly or indirectly, through a Fund Investment Holding Corporation, and 
in any such case, the General Partner shall provide for the acquisition by, or transfer to, such Fund Investment 
Holding Corporation of a portion of such Fund Asset corresponding to the aggregate percentage of all such Partners 
(the “Indirect Partners”).  Partners that are not Indirect Partners shall be defined, for the purposes of this Section 5.3, 
as “Direct Partners.”  For the avoidance of doubt, the determination by the General Partner of which Partners 
(including some or all of the Limited Partners) shall be Indirect Partners with respect to applying any Fund Asset, 
and which Partners shall be Direct Partners with respect to such Fund Asset, shall be made in the General Partner’s 
discretion.
(c)
Any Fund Asset in which some but less than all of the Fund’s interest is held by a Fund 
Investment Holding Corporation shall be treated, for the purposes of this Section 5.3, as two “Special Fund 
Investments.”  One Special Fund Investment shall be that portion of the Fund Asset that is the direct or indirect 
investment in the equity and/or debt instruments, if any, of such Fund Investment Holding Corporation (the 
“Corporate Portion”), and the other Special Fund Investment shall be the remaining portion of the direct or indirect 
investment in such Fund Asset (the “Remaining Portion”).  The Indirect Partners shall be treated as participating in 
the Special Fund Investment (“Participating Partners”) only with respect to the Special Fund Investment that is the 
Corporate Portion, and the Direct Partners shall be treated as Participating Partners only with respect to the Special 
Fund Investment that is the Remaining Portion.
(d)
The (i) allocation of income, gain, loss and expense, (ii) the distribution of material net 
proceeds from the sale, refinancing, redemption or other disposition of all, or any portion, of an investment and 
amounts received as extraordinary dividends or distributions in recapitalizations with regard to a Fund Asset (“Net 
Proceeds from Investment Dispositions”) and (iii) distributions in respect of interest and other dividends (“Current 
Cash Flow”) received by the Fund from Fund Assets in respect of the Special Fund Investment shall be made 
separately in respect of the Corporate Portion and the Remaining Portion in accordance with the provisions of this 
Section 5.3.  An amount equal to the corporate-level tax paid or accrued by the Fund Investment Holding 
Corporation, and any expenses incurred by the Fund Investment Holding Corporation, will be deemed to have been 
allocated and distributed to the Participating Partners in such Fund Investment Holding Corporation for purposes of 
determining allocations and distributions under this Section 5.3.
(e)
Distributions made to the Indirect Partners in respect of the Special Fund Investment that 
is the Corporate Portion shall be made solely out of amounts received by the Fund in respect of dividends, 
13
distributions, interest or principal paid by, and redemptions or retirements with respect to the equity or debt 
instruments of, the Fund Investment Holding Corporation.
(f)
The Fund Investment Holding Corporation may enter into an agreement with the General 
Partner or an affiliate of Goldman Sachs providing for the management of such Fund Investment Holding 
Corporation.
(g)
The Fund may invest directly or indirectly in one or more partnerships, limited liability 
companies or other appropriate entities that will elect to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax 
purposes (each, a “Fund Investment Holding Partnership”), for the purpose of holding all or any portion of any Fund 
Asset, including the portion attributable to a Fund Investment Holding Corporation.  The General Partner may, in its 
discretion cause the Remaining Portion of any Fund Asset (as described in Section 5.3(c)) to be owned by the Fund 
Investment Holding Partnership, in which case the partnership interests of the Fund Investment Holding Partnership 
(other than those held by the Fund Investment Holding Corporation) will be considered to be a Special Fund 
Investment in which some or all of [           ] the Direct Partners will be the Participating Partners, as determined by 
the General Partner.
(h)
The General Partner may form or cause the Fund to form, or cause the Fund to join with 
one or more of the Other Funds in forming, in each case, directly or indirectly, one or more corporations, 
partnerships, limited liability companies, or other appropriate entities to make or hold Fund Investments (each, an 
“Other Vehicle”).
(i)
In any case where a Fund Asset is made through an Other Vehicle, the Other Vehicle will 
be directly or indirectly owned by the Fund for the benefit of all of the Partners; provided, however, that in any case 
in which the General Partner determines it would be advantageous from a legal, tax, regulatory or other perspective, 
the Other Vehicle may be utilized on behalf of less than all of the Partners (which may include or exclude [           ] 
some or all of the Class O Limited Partners) and the investment in such Fund Investment on behalf of the remaining 
Partners (which may include or exclude [           ] some or all of the Class O Limited Partners) may be made directly 
by the Fund, or through an Other Vehicle, in which case, each such portion shall be treated, for purposes of this 
Section 5.3, as a Special Fund Investment made for the benefit of the Partners participating therein, respectively, and 
shall be attributed as the General Partner shall deem appropriate, in its sole discretion.  In any case where the Fund 
receives or is allocated disproportionate distributions and allocations from an Other Vehicle, such disproportionate 
distributions or allocations shall be distributed and allocated to the [           ] relevant Class O Limited Partners (or to 
the Fund for the benefit of the [           ] relevant Class O Limited Partners) as appropriate.   
(j)
Subject to paragraphs (a) – (i) of this Section 5.3, the allocation of income, gain, loss and 
expense, and the distribution of Net Proceeds from Investment Dispositions and Current Cash Flow from Fund 
Assets, in respect of a Special Fund Investment shall be made in accordance with this Article V as if such Special 
Fund Investment were a Fund Asset; provided, that any allocations and distributions in respect of a Special Fund 
Investment shall be made solely to the Participating Partners [           ]; and provided further, that in applying those 
Sections, each such Participating Partner’s Special Percentage shall be substituted for such Partner’s [           ] Class 
O Percentage, as applicable. 
(k)
The term “Special Percentage” shall mean, with respect to each Participating Partner in 
any Special Fund Investment, the result, expressed as a percentage, of dividing such Participating Partner’s 
contributions with respect to such Special Fund Investment by the sum of the contributions of all the Participating 
Partners with respect to such Special Fund Investment (adjusted as necessary, in the reasonable discretion of the 
General Partner, to reflect (i) any funded contributions which are funded disproportionately to relative capital 
commitments and/or (ii) the appropriate economic terms with respect to Class O Limited Partners).
5.4.
Prohibited Transactions.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein and except to 
the extent permitted under the terms and conditions of the Application or any order approving the Application, and 
except for any joint trading account through which the Fund and affiliates of the General Partner may engage in the 
transactions contemplated by Section 5.1, no funds of the Fund shall be kept in any account other than a Fund 
14
account, and funds shall not be commingled with the funds of any other Person, and the General Partner shall not 
employ, or permit any other Person to employ, such funds in any manner except for the benefit of the Fund (it being 
understood that this provision does not prohibit any investments otherwise permitted to be made by the Fund and 
does not apply to funds owned by Portfolio Companies).
5.5.
Restrictions on the Authority of the General Partner.
(a)
The General Partner shall not have the authority to:
(i)
do any act in contravention of this Agreement or the Delaware Act or any other 
applicable law;
(ii)
do any act that would make it impossible to carry on the ordinary business of the 
Fund, which, for the avoidance of doubt shall not prohibit the General Partner from selling any or all of the 
assets of the Fund at any time;
(iii)
possess Fund property or assign, pledge, grant a security interest in or over, 
charge or hypothecate its rights in specific Fund property, for other than a Fund purpose;
(iv)
except as provided in Section 8.10, admit another Person as a general partner, 
unless such Person is an entity wholly owned by Goldman Sachs; or
(v)
admit a Person as a Limited Partner or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner, 
except as provided in this Agreement and in the Offering Memorandum or as otherwise permitted by the 
terms and conditions of the Application or any order approving the Application.
(b)
The General Partner shall not perform any act that would subject any Limited Partner or 
SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner to liability as a general partner in any jurisdiction.
5.6.
Indemnification and Contribution.
(a)
To the fullest extent permitted by law, none of the General Partner, the Investment 
Manager, Goldman Sachs, the Partnership Representative, the Fund persons controlling, controlled by or under 
common control with any of the foregoing or any of their respective officers, directors, managers, partners, 
managing directors, stockholders, members, other equity holders, employees and controlling Persons (if any) (each, 
a “Management Indemnified Person” and collectively, the “Management Indemnified Persons”), shall be liable to 
the Fund or to any Limited Partners or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners for:  (i) any act or omission 
performed or omitted by any such Management Indemnified Person (or by another Management Indemnified 
Person) or for any Losses arising therefrom, in the absence of gross negligence, willful misfeasance, bad faith or any 
material violation of any applicable securities law or any other intentional or criminal wrongdoing on the part of 
such Management Indemnified Person or any willful and material breach by such Management Indemnified Person 
of this Agreement or any side letter that is reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on the Fund; (ii) 
any tax liability (including any liability for withholding, transfer, or other taxes (including (x) any interest and 
penalties thereon, (y) withholding tax liabilities pursuant to Section 1446(f) of the Code, and (z) any “imputed 
underpayment” attributable to any such Limited Partner, as determined by the Partnership Representative in its sole 
discretion, under Section 6225 of the Code)) imposed on the Fund, any Subsidiary or other entity in which the Fund 
invests, directly or indirectly, or any Limited Partner or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner (in excess of such 
Management Indemnified Person’s proportionate share of any such tax liability to the extent such Management 
Indemnified Person is a Partner); or (iii) any Losses due to any act or omission performed or omitted by brokers or 
other agents of the Fund or their respective employees (whether or not such Persons are directly employed by any 
Management Indemnified Person), as long as such brokers or other agents were selected with reasonable care.  
Subject to applicable law, no member of the Advisory Committee (each, an “Advisory Committee Indemnified 
Person” and, collectively, the “Advisory Committee Indemnified Persons”), shall be liable to the Fund or to any 
Limited Partner for (i) any act or omission performed or omitted by any such Advisory Committee Indemnified 
Person in connection with serving on the Advisory Committee (including any acts or omissions of or by an 
15
Management Indemnified Person or another Advisory Committee Indemnified Person), or for any costs, damages or 
liabilities arising therefrom in the absence of willful misfeasance or bad faith by such Advisory Committee 
Indemnified Person; or (ii) any losses due to any act or omission performed or omitted by agents or advisors of the 
Advisory Committee or the Investor Advisory Committee (or their respective employees) in the absence of willful 
misfeasance or bad faith by such Advisory Committee Indemnified Person (whether or not such Persons are directly 
employed by the Advisory Committee).
(b)
To the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to certain limits herein, the Fund will 
indemnify (and advance funds pursuant to clause (d) below to cover) any Management Indemnified Person, jointly 
and severally, for any expenses, losses, costs, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims (including without 
limitation any legal expenses and costs and expenses relating to investigating or defending any demands, charges or 
claims) (any such expense, loss, cost, damage, liability, demand, charge or claim, a “Loss” and collectively, 
“Losses”) to which such Management Indemnified Person may become subject in connection with:  (i) any matter 
arising out of or in connection with the Fund’s business or affairs (including any Losses arising out of or in 
connection with the Fund’s indemnification, contribution, reimbursement or similar obligations to any of its 
investments or to any director, manager, officer, employee, partner, agent, or any other similar Person or entity of 
any such investment), except, with respect to any Management Indemnified Person, to the extent that any such Loss 
results solely from the gross negligence, willful misfeasance, bad faith, fraud or any material violation of any 
applicable securities law or any other intentional or criminal wrongdoing on the part of such Management 
Indemnified Person or any willful and material breach by such Management Indemnified Person of this Agreement 
or any side letter that is reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on the Fund; (ii) any tax liability 
(including any liability for withholding, transfer, or other taxes (including (x) any interest and penalties thereon, (y) 
withholding tax liabilities pursuant to Section 1446(f) of the Code, and (z) any “imputed underpayment” attributable 
to any such Limited Partner, as determined by the Partnership Representative in its sole discretion, under Section 
6225 of the Code)) imposed on the Fund, any Subsidiary of the Fund or other entity in which the Fund invests, 
directly or indirectly, or any Limited Partner or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner (in excess of such 
Management Indemnified Person’s proportionate share of any such tax liability as a Partner); or (iii) any act or 
omission performed by or omitted by brokers or other agents of the Fund or their respective employees (unless such 
employee, broker or agent is a Management Indemnified Person, in which case clause (i) of this sentence would 
apply, as applicable) so long as such Persons were selected with reasonable care.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
Fund will not indemnify any Management Indemnified Person for Losses incurred in connection with proceedings 
where one or more Management Indemnified Persons are suing one or more other Management Indemnified Persons 
unless one of the Funds is a plaintiff, defendant or other participant in such proceedings or will (or could reasonably 
be expected to) receive any monetary benefit from the outcome of such proceeding.  Additionally, each Limited 
Partner will be required to indemnify the Fund and each Management Indemnified Person against taxes attributable 
to such Limited Partner.
(c)
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Fund will indemnify (and advance funds 
pursuant to clause (d) below to cover) any Advisory Committee Indemnified Person, jointly and severally, for any 
Losses to which such Advisory Committee Indemnified Person may become subject in connection with serving on 
the Advisory Committee or the Investor Advisory Committee, except to the extent that any such Loss results solely 
from the willful misfeasance or bad faith of such Advisory Committee Indemnified Person.
(d)
In the event that any Management Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee 
Indemnified Person (each, an “Indemnified Person” and, collectively, the “Indemnified Persons”) becomes involved 
in any capacity in any action, proceeding or investigation brought by or against any Person (including any Limited 
Partner or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner) in connection with any matter arising out of or in connection with 
the Fund’s business or affairs (including a breach by any Limited Partner or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner 
(other than any Limited Partner or SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner affiliated with Goldman Sachs) of this 
Agreement or the Limited Partner’s subscription agreement), the Fund will periodically reimburse such Management 
Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee Indemnified Person for its legal and other expenses (including the cost 
of any investigation and preparation) incurred in connection therewith; provided, that such Management Indemnified 
Person or Advisory Committee Indemnified Person shall promptly repay to the Fund the amount of any such 
reimbursed expenses paid to it if it shall ultimately be determined, by a court having appropriate jurisdiction in a 
16
decision that is not subject to appeal, that such Management Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee 
Indemnified Person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Fund in connection with such action, proceeding or 
investigation as provided in clause (b), clause (c) or this clause (d), as applicable; provided, further, that the Fund 
shall not pursuant to this Section 5.6(d) advance any legal or other expenses incurred in connection with the defense 
of any action or proceeding brought by a majority in interest of the investors in the Underlying Funds against a 
Management Indemnified Person.
(e)
If for any reason (other than, in the case of any Management Indemnified Person, the 
gross negligence, willful misfeasance, bad faith or fraud of such Management Indemnified Person or any material 
violation of any applicable securities law or any other intentional criminal wrongdoing on the part of such 
Management Indemnified Person and in the case of any Advisory Committee Indemnified Person, the willful 
misfeasance or bad faith of such Advisory Committee Indemnified Person) the foregoing indemnification, 
reimbursement or advance is unavailable to such Management Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee 
Indemnified Person, or is insufficient to hold either harmless, then the Fund shall contribute to the amount paid or 
payable by such Management Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee Indemnified Person as a result of such 
Loss in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits received by the Fund on the one 
hand and such Management Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee Indemnified Person on the other hand but 
also the relative fault of the Fund and such Management Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee Indemnified 
Person, as well as any relevant equitable considerations.
(f)
The reimbursement, indemnity and contribution obligations of the Fund (or the General 
Partner in the event the Fund has been dissolved) under this Section 5.6 shall be in addition to any liability which the 
Fund may otherwise have, shall extend upon the same terms and conditions to the officers, directors, managers, 
partners, managing directors, stockholders, members, other equity holders, employees and controlling Persons (if 
any) of each Management Indemnified Person and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors, 
assigns, heirs and personal representatives of any Management Indemnified Persons.
(g)
The reimbursement, indemnity and contribution obligations provided by this Section 5.6 
shall not be deemed to be exclusive of any other rights to which any Management Indemnified Person may be 
entitled under any agreement, as a matter of law or otherwise, both as to action in a Management Indemnified 
Person’s official capacity and to action in another capacity, and shall continue as to a Management Indemnified 
Person who shall have ceased to have an official capacity for acts or omissions during such official capacity (or 
otherwise when acting at the request of the Fund, the General Partner or the Investment Manager) and shall be 
binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors, assigns, heirs and personal representatives of any 
Management Indemnified Persons.  
(h)
The General Partner shall have power to purchase and maintain reasonable insurance on 
behalf of the General Partner and the other Management Indemnified Persons at the expense of the Fund, against 
any liability that may be asserted against or incurred by them in any such capacity or arising out of the General 
Partner’s or such Management Indemnified Person’s status as such, whether or not the Fund would have the power 
to indemnify the Management Indemnified Persons against such liability under the provisions of this Agreement.
(i)
Nothing in this Agreement, the subscription agreements or any related document or 
agreement shall constitute a waiver or limitation of the General Partner’s, Investment Manager’s, and/or Goldman 
Sach’s potential liability, or of any rights which a Partner or the Fund may have, under applicable securities laws or 
other laws which may not be waived, including any fiduciary duty arising under the Investment Advisers Act of 
1940 (the “Advisers Act”).
(j)
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing to the contrary, the provisions of this Section 5.6 
shall not be construed so as to provide for the indemnification of any Management Indemnified Person for any 
liability (including liability under U.S. federal securities laws which, under certain circumstances, impose liability 
on Persons that act in good faith) to the extent (but only to the extent) that such indemnification would be in 
violation of applicable law, but shall be construed so as to effectuate the provisions of this Section 5.6 to the fullest 
extent permitted by law.
17
(k)
The assets of the Fund and the amount of the Limited Partners’ and the SOX Insider 
Preferred Limited Partners’ aggregate capital commitments shall be available to satisfy the indemnity and 
contribution obligations of the Fund under this Section 5.6; in addition, the General Partner may require the other 
Partners (or Persons who were formerly Partners) to contribute again to the Fund any such obligations an amount 
equal to amounts previously distributed to Limited Partners or the SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners.  The 
General Partner may provide each affected Partner with an invoice setting forth the amount owed by the Limited 
Partner or the SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner for amounts due in respect of any indemnity and contribution 
obligations.  Each Partner shall be obligated to pay the invoiced amount promptly upon request by the General 
Partner.  Any unpaid amount shall constitute an obligation of the Partner and shall accrue interest at the Interest Rate 
or a higher commercially reasonable rate as determined by the General Partner, and that amount, together with 
accrued interest, shall be debited from any distributions otherwise to be made to the Partner.
(l)
Each Management Indemnified Person may rely upon and shall be protected in acting or 
refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, 
consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or 
presented by the proper party or parties.
(m)
Each Management Indemnified Person shall be entitled, to the fullest extent of the law, to 
rely in good faith upon any and all sources enumerated in Section 17-407(c) of the Delaware Act, and any act or 
omission taken or suffered by such Management Indemnified Person in reasonable reliance on such source or 
sources shall in no event subject the Management Indemnified Person to liability to the Fund or to any Partner or to 
any other Person.  All Partners hereby acknowledge and agree that each Management Indemnified Person is entitled 
to the same right of reliance and protection from liability as the General Partner.
(n)
The General Partner may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any 
duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys, and the General Partner shall not be responsible 
for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with reasonable care by it 
hereunder.
(o)
The General Partner is specifically authorized and empowered, for and on behalf of the 
Fund, to enter into any agreement or undertaking with any Management Indemnified Person or Advisory Committee 
Indemnified Person not itself a party to this Agreement that the General Partner considers to be necessary or 
advisable to give full effect to the foregoing indemnification provisions of this Agreement.
(p)
The foregoing provisions of this Section 5.6 shall survive any termination of this 
Agreement and any Limited Partner ceasing to be a limited partner of the Fund.
Article VI
Capital Commitments, Defaults and Accounts;
Aggregate Capital Contributions; Accounting and Valuation;
Allocations; Reinvestment and Distributions
6.1.
Capital Commitments, Defaults and Accounts.
(a)
[           ]
The General Partner at any time may cause the Fund to retain proceeds to pay (or establish 
reserves for) any of the Fund’s current or anticipated direct or indirect obligations (including indebtedness, 
management fees and other Fund Expenses, as well as obligations relating to current or additional investments) and 
may also offset an amount that would otherwise be distributed to Limited Partners against amounts due pursuant to 
capital calls or otherwise.  One or more of the Underlying Funds may have the ability to retain and reinvest proceeds 
or distribute proceeds to investors (including the Fund) and subsequently recall those proceeds for re-investment, as 
described in the governing documents of the Underlying Funds, (any such proceeds, “Underlying Fund Recyclable 
18
Proceeds”).  Accordingly, the Fund may retain distributions that would otherwise be made to, or recall distributions 
previously made to, its Limited Partners.  A Limited Partner’s available commitment will not be impacted if the 
Fund retains, or distributes and subsequently recalls, any Underlying Fund Recyclable Proceeds.
(b)
If any Limited Partner fails to pay any installment of such Limited Partner’s capital 
commitment or any other payment required by this Agreement or his, her or its subscription agreement when due, 
the General Partner will have the right (in addition to any available recourse), but not the obligation, to charge such 
Limited Partner interest on the late payment from the due date until the day it is paid.  Interest shall be charged at the 
Interest Rate or such higher commercially reasonable rate as determined by the General Partner from and including 
the due date of the installment until, but not including, the date it is paid.
(c)
If any Limited Partner (a “Defaulting Limited Partner”) other than an Institutional 
Limited Partner, fails to pay any installment of such Limited Partner’s capital commitment or fails to make any other 
payment required by this Agreement or his, her or its subscription agreement within thirty (30) calendar days (unless 
such period is otherwise extended by the General Partner) (a “Default”) from the date on which such installment is 
due, (the due date of any such delinquent capital contribution or other payment, the “Default Date”) the General 
Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to redeem, purchase or cause the Transfer of the Defaulting 
Limited Partner’s entire interest in the Fund to one or more Persons, including Goldman Sachs, another Limited 
Partner or other Eligible Investors, on the first Purchase Date following Goldman Sachs’ notification of its election 
to exercise this right at a price (the “Default Price”) equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of the Minimum Purchase 
Price [           ] payable in cash, in kind or by delivery of a note (or any combination of the foregoing) and on such 
other terms and conditions as the General Partner may determine [           ].
In addition, the General Partner may undertake any one or more of the following remedies: (i) 
[           ], (ii) allowing the Defaulting Limited Partner to withdraw from the Fund at the Default Price and in 
accordance with the terms of Section 8.9, (iii) causing the Defaulting Limited Partner to forfeit its Participating 
Interest for no consideration (whether or not distributed or vested), and (iv) taking any other actions available to the 
General Partner under law and equity.
(d)
If an Institutional Limited Partner fails to pay the entire amount of any installment or 
other required payment, the foregoing purchase rights shall apply only to the portion of such Institutional Limited 
Partner’s Interest that is attributable to the Indirect Investor in respect of the amount that was not paid.  The failure 
to pay any installment or other required payment when due shall constitute a breach of this Agreement, and such 
Defaulting Limited Partner shall remain liable for such breach regardless of any purchase by Goldman Sachs of the 
Defaulting Limited Partner’s Participating Interest in the Fund (or portion thereof, in the case of an Institutional 
Limited Partner).  Goldman Sachs may, but is not required to, offer any Participating Interest so acquired to other 
Limited Partners or any other Persons, who meet, in the judgment of the General Partner, the requirements to 
become a Limited Partner.  Any such sale by Goldman Sachs shall be treated as a Transfer for purposes of this 
Agreement and shall be subject to and effected only in accordance with Article VIII.
(e)
[           ]
(f)
By subscribing to the Fund, each Limited Partner authorizes Goldman Sachs to deduct 
without prior notice any Default amount(s) due by such Limited Partner from (i) any other Goldman Sachs 
employee special investments in which such Limited Partner is invested (now or at any time in the future), including 
by withholding from distributions, (ii) any cash, any proceeds from the liquidation of any marketable securities, 
including Goldman Sachs stock, and/or any other amounts held in the Limited Partner’s Goldman Sachs brokerage 
account(s), (iii) any amounts paid in connection with the Limited Partner’s departure from Goldman Sachs, and 
(iv) any other amounts owed to such Limited Partner by Goldman Sachs (including income, compensation, or 
equity-based awards), to the extent permitted by applicable law and any applicable plans, programs or agreements.  
In addition, the Fund (1) may withdraw funds credited to a Limited Partner’s Capital Account in the Fund if 
19
necessary to satisfy any obligation owed by such Limited Partner to Goldman Sachs and (2) to the extent such funds 
are insufficient, may cause such Limited Partner’s Interest in the Fund to be forfeited or reallocated.
6.2.
Additional Capital Contributions.  Except for [           ] the indemnity obligations set forth in 
Section 8.5 arising in connection with certain Transfers, [           ], the obligation to return distributions in connection 
with the indemnification and contribution obligations set forth in Section 5.6 and the obligation to contribute capital 
up to the amount of Underlying Fund Recyclable Proceeds in accordance with Section 6.1(a) and the clawback set 
forth in Section 6.9, no Limited Partner shall be required or, except with the express written consent of the General 
Partner, permitted to make aggregate payments or contributions of capital to the Fund in excess of such Limited 
Partner’s capital commitment, which shall be contributed as and when required by Section 6.1 and Article VII.  The 
General Partner may make, but will not be obligated to make, voluntary additional capital contributions in such 
amounts and at such times as it may choose, upon notification thereof to all Limited Partners and the failure of three-
quarters in interest of the Limited Partners to object thereto in writing within thirty (30) calendar days of notice 
thereof.
6.3.
Fiscal and Taxable Year.  Unless the General Partner at any time shall otherwise determine the 
fiscal year and taxable year of the Fund shall each end on December 31 of each year.
6.4.
Partners’ Capital Accounts.
(a)
A capital account (“Capital Account”) shall be established and maintained in the records 
of the Fund for each Partner and in respect of each class of Interests held by such Partner.  A Partner’s Capital 
Account in respect of a class of Interests will, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, be:
(i)
increased by [           ] allocations to such Partner in respect of that class of 
Interests of Fund income and gain [           ]; and
(ii)
decreased by (A) the amount of money or the net fair value of property 
distributed to such Partner by the Fund in respect of that class of Interests, (B) allocations to such Partner in 
respect of that class of Interests of Fund loss and deduction [           ].
If any Limited Partner Transfers all or any portion of his, her or its Interests (including as provided 
in Section 6.1), the Capital Account of such transferor Limited Partner that is attributable to such portion will carry 
over to the transferee Limited Partner.  A Partner’s aggregate Capital Account shall equal the sum of his, her or its 
Capital Accounts maintained in respect of each class of Interests held by such Partner.
As used herein, a Partner Capital Account means a Partner’s aggregate Capital Account or a 
Partner’s Capital Account in respect of a particular class of Interests as the context so requires.
(b)
The Investment Manager shall determine the value or oversee the valuation of each 
Limited Partner’s Capital Account as of the close of (i) the annual accounting period and (ii) the period ending with 
the distribution pursuant to Section 9.2 by treating each Fund Investment as having been disposed of for its fair 
value on the earlier of the last day of such period or the day such Fund Investment was actually disposed of or an In-
kind Distribution was made, as the case may be, during such period, and by applying the allocation principles set 
forth in Section 6.5.  Unrealized gains and losses shall be determined with respect to each Fund Investment owned 
by the Fund by reference to the value at which such Fund Investment is carried on the balance sheet of the Fund as 
determined by the Investment Manager in accordance with the valuation principles used in the quarterly financial 
statements of the Fund prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) (the 
“Financial Statement Value”).  The reasonableness and appropriateness of the procedure utilized to determine such 
Financial Statement Values shall be reviewed annually by the Fund’s independent auditors in connection with the 
examination of the Fund’s annual financial statements.  The determination of capital gains and losses with respect to 
any Fund Investment shall take into account any related fees and expenses incurred in connection with the 
acquisition and disposition of such Fund Investment, including Fund Expenses which are capitalized into the basis 
of a Fund Investment.
20
6.5.
Allocation of Profits and Losses.
(a)
The Fund’s profits and losses for any year shall be determined by the General Partner in 
accordance with GAAP and procedures using the accrual method (with investments carried at their fair value as 
determined by the General Partner or Persons selected by it).  The General Partner shall determine the allocation 
periods under this Section 6.5, and any period in respect of which an allocation is made is referred to herein as an 
“Allocation Period.”
(b)
Profits and losses of the Fund for each Allocation Period shall be allocated as follows, 
subject, in each case, to Section 6.5(c) and any adjustments the General Partner determines appropriate so as to take 
into account (i) any Default by a Limited Partner, (ii) [           ] (iii) any deemed distribution of withholding and/or 
other taxes that are allocable or attributable to a particular Limited Partner and (iv) the forfeiture of any Class O 
Interests held by each Limited Partner, (v) [           ], and (vi) any clawback of Carried Interest:
(i)
[           ];
(ii)
[           ];
(iii)
[           ];
(iv)
[           ]
(v)
an amount equal to the Carried Interest received directly from the Carried 
Interest Paying Funds (including, for purposes hereof, any investment vehicle directly or indirectly held by 
one or more of the Carried Interest Paying Funds by which Carried Interest is paid) shall be allocated 
among the Class O Limited Partners in proportion to their respective Class O Percentages.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the General Partner may determine not to allocate Borrowing 
Expenses to any, all or certain Participating Interests held by SOX Insiders, including Institutional Limited Partners, 
if any (to the extent of the portion of any Institutional Limited Partner’s Participating Interests held directly or 
indirectly by SOX Insiders), in the event SOX Insiders have pre-funded their capital calls or purchased SOX Insider 
Preferred Interests as contemplated by Section 6.1.  Allocations with respect to SOX Insider Preferred Interests shall 
be made in accordance with Section 7.2.
(c)
Allocations for U.S. federal income tax purposes will generally follow the allocations 
described above (except that investments will not generally be marked to market).
(d)
It is the intention of the parties that, to the extent possible and consistent with the 
economics of this Agreement, the allocations made by the General Partner be respected for U.S. federal income tax 
purposes and comply with Section 704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and 
Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder (the “Treasury Regulations”), and shall be interpreted and applied in a 
manner consistent with Section 704 and such Treasury Regulations.  In furtherance of this intention a “qualified 
income offset provision” and any such other provision described in applicable regulations and deemed desirable by 
the General Partner shall be incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  Notwithstanding any implication to the 
contrary contained herein, the General Partner shall have authority to make or refrain from making available tax 
elections and to choose from all available tax accounting methodologies in implementing the foregoing.  To the 
extent consistent with applicable law, the General Partner may specially allocate income to any Partner, the status of 
which resulted in recognition of such income or otherwise alters the distribution or allocation provisions herein so 
that such Partner bears the consequences of such recognition.  The General Partner’s determination of allocations 
shall be binding upon all parties.
(e)
Allocation of Certain Taxes and Income.  Taxes (including any U.S. or non-U.S. income, 
withholding and similar taxes paid by Subsidiaries) will be allocated annually to the Partners in the same proportion 
21
that the income in that year in respect of which such taxes are paid is allocated; provided, however, that where any 
such tax payable by the Fund or a Subsidiary is calculated, under applicable law, with respect to income allocable to 
some but not all of the Partners, or, to the extent income allocable to some of the Partners is exempt from tax in the 
hands of the Fund (or such taxes are reduced in respect of income allocated to certain Partners), or such tax arises as 
a result of the status of one or more Partners (or class of Partners), the failure by one or more Partners to comply 
with their obligations under Section 10.5, or the treatment or characterization for applicable tax purposes of any 
entity, payment or instrument by one or more Partners (or class of Partners), such taxes shall be allocated, as 
reasonably determined by the General Partner, among such Partners to whom allocations of income are subject to 
tax in the hands of the Fund (or to reflect such reductions) or to whom such taxes are otherwise properly allocable.  
To the extent consistent with applicable law, the General Partner may specially allocate income to any Limited 
Partner the status of which resulted in recognition of such income or otherwise alter the distribution or allocation 
provisions herein so that such Limited Partner bears the consequences of such recognition.
(f)
Certain Definitions.
(i)
[           ]
(ii)
“Borrowing Expenses” means all amounts in respect of premium, discount and 
interest on, and all costs, expenses, commissions and fees relating to, any incurrence, modification, 
amendment, restructuring, refinancing, cancellation or repayment of the direct or indirect indebtedness of 
the Fund and relating to notes and guarantees and providing any credit support.
(iii)
[           ]
(iv)
[           ]
(v)
[           ]
(vi)
[           ]
(vii)
[           ]
(viii)
[           ]
(ix)
“Class O Percentage” means, with respect to any Class O Limited Partner and 
any date of determination, a fraction, the numerator of which is the Class O Interest of such Limited 
Partner, and the denominator of which is the aggregate Class O Interests.  Each Class O Limited Partner’s 
initial Class O Percentage will be determined with respect to a Class O Limited Partner based upon the 
Class O Interests offered to a Class O Limited Partner (or in the case of an investor who is an Affiliated 
Investor Entity, its related Offeree) as described in the Offering Memorandum.  A Class O Limited 
Partner’s Class O Percentage may be adjusted from time to time, including in connection with any whole or 
partial withdrawal, Transfer or forfeiture of a Class O Limited Partner’s Class O Interest, or any grant of 
additional Class O Interests to a Class O Limited Partner in accordance with this Agreement, as determined 
by the General Partner in its discretion.  The General Partner’s determination of the adjusted Class O 
Percentage of a Class O Limited Partner for purposes of any distribution shall be conclusive and binding on 
all Limited Partners.
(x)
“FATCA” means, Sections 1471 to 1474 of the Code (or any amended or 
successor provisions), any current or future regulations thereunder or official interpretations thereof, any 
agreement entered into pursuant to Section 1471(b)(1) of the Code, any fiscal or regulatory legislation, 
rules or practices adopted pursuant to any applicable intergovernmental agreement entered into in 
connection with the implementation of such Sections of the Code, and any other similar legislation, 
regulations or guidance enacted in any other jurisdiction which seeks to implement similar financial 
account information reporting and/or withholding tax regimes.
22
(xi)
[           ]
(xii)
[           ]
(xiii)
“Person” means, any individual, partnership, limited liability company, 
corporation, trust, estate, association or other entity, or any other custodian or nominee or any individual or 
entity in its own or any representative capacity.
6.6.
Distributions to Limited Partners.
(a)
General.  The amount and timing of distributions to each Limited Partner shall be at the 
sole discretion of the General Partner.  The General Partner will have the right to withhold distributions if a Limited 
Partner fails to comply with any Goldman Sachs policy or request.  In addition, (i) the timing of distributions may 
vary among the classes of Limited Partners, in the sole discretion of the General Partner and (ii) the General Partner 
may take into account legal, tax, regulatory or other considerations, including to comply with regulatory or 
legislative rules, when determining the timing of any payments (including, but not limited to, distributions) with 
respect to one or more Limited Partners (including considerations applicable to a Limited Partner’s status as an 
employee of Goldman Sachs) and/or classes, as it or Goldman Sachs determines is necessary or advisable, it being 
understood that varying regional considerations may result in one or more Limited Partners receiving such payments 
earlier than one or more other Limited Partners.  Underlying Fund Recyclable Proceeds and other amounts held by 
the Fund may be retained in the Fund for reinvestment or distributed to the Limited Partners and subsequently 
recalled for reinvestment by the Fund, as the case may be, in accordance with Section 6.1.  Any Underlying Fund 
Recyclable Proceeds so retained or recalled shall not reduce the available capital commitments of the Limited 
Partners.  The General Partner at any time may cause the Fund to retain any proceeds from any investment 
(including the amount of the capital contribution relating to that investment) it receives to pay (or establish reserves 
for) any of the Fund’s current or anticipated direct or indirect obligations (including indebtedness, management fees 
and other Fund Expenses, as well as obligations relating to current or additional investments) and may also offset an 
amount that would otherwise be distributed to Limited Partners (including amounts payable in respect of a different 
class of Interests owned by the Limited Partner) against amounts due pursuant to capital calls or otherwise.  [           ]  
The General Partner does not intend to make any distributions in respect of Carried Interest (excluding the 
distribution of Carried Interest Tax Distribution Amounts in respect of Carried Interest) until at least [   ].  Moreover, 
the General Partner does not intend to make any distributions of Carried Interest until the likelihood of clawback is 
remote.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that 
distributions from, or proceeds from the disposition of, Fund Investments are retained (rather than distributed, 
subject to recall), the General Partner will have the authority to adjust distributions and allocations to cause each 
Partner to receive, to the extent possible, the same distributions and allocations (as determined without giving effect 
to the individual tax treatment of any Partner) that each such Partner would have received had the amounts been 
distributed and the Partners made capital contributions in accordance with Section 6.1 (so that each Limited Partner 
bears his, her or its share of Fund Expenses that are not borne by the Partners in proportion to their capital 
commitments, bears amounts attributable to such Limited Partner pursuant to Section 6.5(e), and bears any other 
Fund Expenses according to such Partner’s capital commitment, and so that each Limited Partner receives an 
appropriate amount of distributions and allocations as contemplated herein, in each case as determined by the 
General Partner).
Any amounts that become available for distribution but are not distributed, including the Carried 
Interest, may be invested in money market instruments and/or other marketable securities, either directly or through 
funds that are managed by Goldman Sachs.  The General Partner may determine to make distributions to the 
Institutional Limited Partners prior to making distributions to the other Limited Partners, in which case the General 
Partner shall make subsequent distributions disproportionately to the other Limited Partners until the amounts 
distributed to each other Limited Partner hereunder would equal the amount each such Limited Partner would have 
received had no such special distributions been made to the Institutional Limited Partners.  All distributions will be 
23
made net of any taxes payable by the Fund or by entities in which the Fund invests (including, for example, any 
local, non-U.S. withholding or other taxes).
The General Partner in its discretion may withhold from amounts otherwise distributable to a 
Limited Partner pursuant to this Section 6.6 [           ] amounts withheld pursuant to Section 6.6(e) in respect of taxes 
allocable to such Limited Partner.
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no provision shall limit in any way 
the General Partner’s discretion to maintain reserves to meet potential investment needs or other obligations of the 
Fund.
(c)
Distributions will generally be made as follows, subject, in each case, to any adjustments 
the General Partner determines appropriate so as to take into account (i) any Default by a Limited Partner, (ii) 
[           ], (iii) any deemed distribution of withholding and/or other taxes that are allocable or attributable to a 
particular Limited Partner and (iv) the forfeiture of any Class O Interests held by each Limited Partner, (v) [           ], 
and (vi) any clawback of Carried Interest.
(i)
[           ]
(ii)
[           ]
(iii)
[           ]
(iv)
[           ]
(v)
Distributions to Holders of Class O Interests.  Subject to Section 6.6(a) and 
Section 6.6(c), the available cash to be distributed, with respect to the Carried Interest, including any tax 
distribution amount (each, a “Carried Interest Tax Distribution Amount”) received by the Fund in its 
capacity as a direct or indirect recipient of Carried Interest for purposes of the respective operating 
agreements of the Carried Interest Paying Funds (including, for purposes hereof, any investment vehicle 
directly or indirectly held by one or more of Carried Interest Paying Funds by which Carried Interest is 
paid), will be distributed among the Class O Limited Partners in proportion to their Class O Percentages, 
subject to any “Incremental Hurdle” or “Notch Amount” as described in the Offering Memorandum.
(vi)
Adjustments to Class O and Sharing Percentages.  Each Class O Limited Partner 
acknowledges that the Sharing Percentage and/or the Class O Limited Partners’ Class O Percentages may 
be adjusted if there are aggregate commitments to the Carried Interest Paying Funds in excess of the 
aggregate amount of commitments that were projected in respect of the Carried Interest Paying Funds in 
connection with the determination of the total number of Carried Interest points offered to Class O Limited 
Partners (or in the case of investors who are Affiliated Investor Entities, their related Offerees), in order to 
give effect to changes in the points as described in the Offering Memorandum.  The General Partner may 
also determine that any commitments in excess of the initial projection will not be considered part of the 
Carried Interest Paying Funds for purposes of this Agreement.  Any determination described in this Section 
6.6(c)(vi) will be made in Goldman Sachs’ sole discretion and without prior notice to the holders of Class 
O Interests.  Goldman Sachs may also determine whether or not any additional capital commitments 
subsequent to the final closing of the Carried Interest Paying Funds are included in the Carried Interest 
Paying Funds.
(vii)
Distributions to Holders of SOX Insider Preferred Interests.  Distributions with 
respect to SOX Insider Preferred Interests shall be made in accordance with Section 7.2.
24
(d)
In-kind Distributions.  The General Partner may make in kind distributions of property 
(“In-kind Distributions”) (including interests denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar) which generally 
shall be distributed among the Partners in the same proportions as cash of equivalent value would be distributed if 
In-kind Distributions had been sold and the proceeds distributed pursuant to this Section 6.6, provided that the Fund 
may make a non-pro rata distribution of property (including distributing certain types of property to certain Partners 
and cash or other types of property to other Partners), pursuant to the redemption or purchase of the Interests by the 
Fund of one or more Partners (including pursuant to Section 8.7 or 8.9) or otherwise where the General Partner 
determines a non-pro rata distribution is appropriate or necessary.  In-kind Distributions shall be valued at their fair 
value as determined by the investment managers of the Underlying Funds; provided that the investment managers of 
the Underlying Funds may hire third parties to make valuation determination or estimation, or may delegate 
valuation determination or estimation to third parties, and the investment managers of the Underlying Funds (or the 
Investment Manager) shall be entitled to rely upon such determinations or estimates.  Where securities are to be 
distributed in kind among all or a group of Partners, securities will be distributed to all such Partners who would 
receive a specified minimum number of securities, and, as an administrative convenience, the securities distributable 
to Partners who would receive fewer securities may, instead, be distributed to a selling pool for sale on behalf of 
these Partners.  In this way, all Partners entitled to such distribution will be treated as receiving a distribution at the 
same time.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, money or other property wrongfully 
distributed to any Partners in violation of this Agreement may be recovered by the Fund.
(e)
Withholding and Other Taxes.
(i)
The General Partner may withhold and/or pay any taxes with respect to any 
Limited Partner’s share of Fund taxable income (or which relate to a predecessor Interest or to a transfer (or 
deemed transfer) of such Limited Partner’s Interest) (including any taxes paid by the Fund as a result of an 
audit adjustment or a change in law), and any such taxes may be withheld from any distribution otherwise 
payable to such Limited Partner.  Taxes so withheld (or paid), or taxes withheld on amounts directly or 
indirectly payable to the Fund, a financing vehicle, a Fund Investment Holding Corporation, a Fund 
Investment Holding Partnership, or a pass-through vehicle in which the Fund has an investment and taxes 
otherwise directly or indirectly paid by the Fund, a financing vehicle or such pass-through vehicle may, in 
the General Partner’s discretion, be treated for purposes of this Agreement (including Section 6.6) as 
distributed to the Partners to which such taxes are properly allocable (including as a result of the status of a 
Partner (or class of Partners) or the treatment or characterization for applicable tax purposes of any entity, 
payment or instrument by any Partner (or class of Partners)) and deemed paid by such Partners to the 
relevant taxing jurisdiction [           ].
(ii)
Each Limited Partner (or former Limited Partner) hereby agrees to indemnify 
and hold harmless the Fund, any Subsidiary, the Management Indemnified Persons and the Advisory 
Committee Indemnified Persons and the other Limited Partners from and against any withholding or other 
tax-related liability (including any liability for taxes, penalties, additions to tax, interest or failure to 
withhold taxes) directly or indirectly payable (or otherwise borne) by the Fund, including through 
Investment Vehicles, that arise with respect to, or as a result of, income attributable to such Limited 
Partner, distributions or other payments to such Limited Partner, the status of such Limited Partner (or class 
of Limited Partners including such Limited Partner), the failure by such Limited Partner to comply with its 
obligations under Section 10.5, or the treatment or characterization for applicable tax purposes of any 
entity, payment or instrument by such Limited Partner (or class of Limited Partners including such Limited 
Partner) (including taxes indemnified under Section 5.6).  For the avoidance of doubt, any such indemnity 
may be structured as a contribution to the Fund and will not be considered a capital contribution for 
purposes of this Agreement, nor shall any requirement that any such contribution be paid be considered a 
capital call.  The amount of any taxes in respect of which a Limited Partner makes such a contribution shall 
not be treated as deemed distributed as described above.  The foregoing provision of this Section 6.6(e) 
shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
25
Recognizing the complexity of the distributions pursuant to this Section 6.6, the General Partner is 
authorized to modify these distributions to ensure that they achieve the intended results without the consent of a 
Limited Partner or the Limited Partners, notwithstanding Section 11.2.
6.7.
Allocation in Case of Transfers.  In the event of a Transfer of an Interest during a taxable year of 
the Fund, allocations of income, gain, loss, deductions and credits and items of tax preference and other tax items of 
the Fund between the transferor and the transferee will be based on the portions of such taxable year during which 
each owned the Interest or as the transferor and the transferee may agree, provided that in either case the General 
Partner shall have consented to such allocation and the transferor and the transferee shall have agreed to reimburse 
the Fund for any incremental accounting fees and other expenses incurred by the Fund in making such allocation.  
[           ]
6.8.
[           ]
6.9.
Clawback
.  Any distributions of Carried Interest to a Limited Partner (including the General Partner) in excess of the 
Carried Interest allocable to such Limited Partner as described in Section 6.5 will be subject to clawback by the 
General Partner.  In addition, the Fund may become obligated to recontribute all or a portion of the Carried Interest 
to one or more of the Carried Interest Paying Funds (including, for purposes hereof, any investment vehicle directly 
or indirectly held by one or more of the Carried Interest Paying Funds by which Carried Interest is paid) if the 
investors in such Carried Interest Paying Fund have not received the preferred return provided for in the applicable 
operating agreement of such Carried Interest Paying Fund or are otherwise entitled to clawback payments pursuant 
to the operating agreement of such Carried Interest Paying Fund.  Moreover, the Fund may become obligated to 
recontribute all or a portion of the Carried Interest received from one or more of the Carried Interest Paying Funds if 
the distributions made by such Carried Interest Paying Fund in respect of such amounts exceed the respective 
Carried Interest accrued as of certain measurement dates.  Each of the General Partner and each Class O Limited 
Partner agrees that, in any of the foregoing cases, such Class O Limited Partner will recontribute to the Fund such 
Limited Partner’s appropriate share of the Carried Interest previously distributed to such Limited Partner that must 
be recontributed to such Carried Interest Paying Fund (including, for purposes hereof, any investment vehicle 
directly or indirectly held by one or more of the Carried Interest Paying Funds by which Carried Interest is paid) (net 
of any Carried Interest Tax Distribution Amount distributed in respect of such recontributed Carried Interest), 
promptly upon request by the General Partner.  The General Partner may provide each Class O Limited Partner with 
an invoice setting forth the amount owing by the Class O Limited Partner for amounts due in respect of any 
clawback obligations, and each Class O Limited Partner shall be obligated to pay the invoiced amount promptly 
upon request by the General Partner.  Any unpaid amount shall constitute an obligation of the Class O Limited 
Partner and shall accrue interest at the Interest Rate, and that amount, together with accrued interest, shall be debited 
from any distributions otherwise to be made to the Class O Limited Partner or from other sources (including but not 
limited to any source listed in Section 6.1(f)).
6.10.
Modifications to Allocations and/or Distributions.  The General Partner may make allocations and/
or distributions in a manner other than as described in this Article VI, including disproportionate allocations of gain 
or loss and/or disproportionate distributions to the extent required under applicable laws, rules and regulations, or 
otherwise deemed advisable or necessary by the General Partner in its discretion in order to give economic effect to 
the provisions of this Agreement; provided, however, that all such allocations are intended to be made in a manner 
such that all Class O Interests will be treated as “profits interests” for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Article VII
Sarbanes-Oxley Act; SOX Insider Preferred Interests;
Modification of SOX Insiders’ Interests;
Limitation on Pledges
7.1.
Purchase of SOX Insider Preferred Interests; Issuance of SOX Insider Preferred Interests.
(a)
For purposes of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( “SOX””), including 
Section 402 thereof and any rules, regulations or interpretations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or 
26
its staff promulgated thereunder (“SOX § 402”), the Fund is authorized to issue, from time to time, one or more 
classes of preferred limited partnership interests (“SOX Insider Preferred Interests” and the holder or holders of such 
SOX Insider Preferred Interests, “SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners”), in such amounts as the General Partner 
determines, and the General Partner may require the purchase thereof by such of the Limited Partners as could, at 
any time and from time to time, in the judgment of the General Partner, be deemed to be (or to be Affiliated Investor 
Entities affiliated with) directors or executive officers (or equivalent thereof) of GS Group within the meaning of 
SOX § 402 (“SOX Insiders”).  Any such SOX Insider will be required to purchase the SOX Insider Preferred 
Interest no later than a date and time set by the General Partner.  The General Partner shall use commercially 
reasonable efforts to provide no less than five (5) days’ notice to any Limited Partner required to purchase a SOX 
Insider Preferred Interest.
(b)
The General Partner may require any subsequently admitted Institutional Limited Partner 
to (i) purchase a SOX Insider Preferred Interest if and to the extent that the General Partner determines, or the 
manager or general partner of such Institutional Limited Partner notifies the General Partner, that one or more 
Indirect Investors in such Institutional Limited Partner are SOX Insiders and (ii) allocate such SOX Insider Preferred 
Interest to such Indirect Investors under such methods as the General Partner or that the manager or general partner 
of the Institutional Limited Partner deems appropriate.
(c)
The General Partner will use commercially reasonable efforts to avoid requiring a 
Limited Partner to contribute, in the aggregate, more than such Limited Partner’s capital commitment towards such 
Limited Partner’s Participating Interest and any SOX Insider Preferred Interest.
7.2.
Terms.  SOX Insider Preferred Interests shall be entitled to the following rights and subject to the 
following terms:
(a)
Distributions.  Each SOX Insider Preferred Interest shall entitle the holder thereof to 
receive a preferred distribution in respect of the capital contributed, as an expense of the Fund, at a rate and at times 
to be determined by the General Partner and notified to the Limited Partner required to purchase such SOX Insider 
Preferred Interest.  The General Partner expects that the distribution rate will equal the rate payable from time to 
time, directly or indirectly, by the Fund, or any Investment Vehicle in which it has invested, on borrowings generally 
secured by unfunded capital commitments of the direct or indirect investors in the applicable borrower.
(b)
Preference.  Each SOX Insider Preferred Interest shall have a preference over all Interests 
(other than other SOX Insider Preferred Interests) as to the payment of distributions and as to the payment of the 
liquidation preference (which shall be equal to the amount invested in such SOX Insider Preferred Interest plus any 
accrued but unpaid distributions) upon the redemption of any SOX Insider Preferred Interest or the winding up of 
the Fund.  SOX Insider Preferred Interests shall be pari passu with respect to each other.
(c)
Redemption; Application to Satisfy Capital Calls.  Notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary herein, the General Partner may from time to time redeem any outstanding SOX Insider Preferred Interests 
in whole or in part.  The General Partner may, but shall not be obligated to, apply the proceeds from the redemption 
of a SOX Insider Preferred Interest to satisfy amounts required to be contributed by applicable SOX Insider 
Preferred Limited Partners in respect of called capital.
(d)
Transfer Restricted.  SOX Insider Preferred Interests shall be subject to the transfer 
restrictions set forth in Article VIII to the same extent as the other Interests.
(e)
Allocation of Profits and Losses.  Profits or losses of the Fund (if any) attributable to a 
SOX Insider Preferred Interest shall, unless otherwise determined by the General Partner, be allocated solely to the 
holder of such SOX Insider Preferred Interest.
(f)
No Other Rights.  Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, a SOX Insider 
Preferred Interest will not entitle the holder thereof to any rights to participate in the profits or assets of the Fund or 
any other rights against the Fund or the Limited Partners with respect to the SOX Insider Preferred Interest.
27
7.3.
Modifications of SOX Insiders’ Interests; Voting Rights of SOX Insider Preferred Interests.
(a)
The Limited Partners acknowledge that the provisions of SOX § 402 may impose 
constraints on the ability of the General Partner, exercising prudence, to permit Limited Partners that are SOX 
Insiders or Affiliated Investor Entities affiliated with SOX Insiders to hold Interests on the same terms as other 
Limited Partners.  In light of these potential constraints, it is understood and agreed that the General Partner is 
authorized, at any time and without notice to or the consent of any Limited Partner, to modify or redeem, in whole or 
in part, Interests held from time to time by SOX Insiders or Affiliated Investor Entities affiliated with SOX Insiders, 
as the General Partner deems necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance by Goldman Sachs with SOX § 402; 
provided, however, that the General Partner shall not effect any modification to an Interest that would materially 
adversely affect the Limited Partners who are not SOX Insiders or Affiliated Investor Entities affiliated with SOX 
Insiders without first complying with the procedure set forth in Section 11.2(a).
(b)
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the General Partner 
may at its election (but may determine not to) pledge, assign or otherwise make available as credit support the 
unfunded capital commitments of any Limited Partner who is a SOX Insider or the Affiliated Investor Entity of a 
SOX Insider, unless the General Partner determines that such pledge, assignment or availability may not comply 
with SOX § 402.
Article VIII
Transferability of Limited Partners’ Interests; Consequences of Departure, Breach of GS Agreements, etc.
8.1.
Restrictions on Transfer.
(a)
No Limited Partner may, directly or indirectly, sell, exchange, transfer, assign, make a 
gift of, donate, bequeath, devise, pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose, directly or indirectly (including 
effecting any direct or indirect transfer or other disposition of interests in, or any direct or indirect change in control 
of, any entity directly or indirectly investing in the Fund), of all or any portion of such Limited Partner’s Interest 
(each, a “Transfer”) except in accordance with this Article VIII.  The General Partner may waive any requirement of 
this Article VIII with respect to any particular Transfer, except the provisions of Section 8.2.
(b)
Subject to the other requirements of this Article VIII, with the prior written consent of the 
General Partner (which consent may be withheld by the General Partner in its discretion), a Limited Partner may 
Transfer all or any portion of such Limited Partner’s Interest to any Person approved by the General Partner (a 
“Transferee”).
(c)
If any purported Transfer of an Interest by a Limited Partner is made other than in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement (i) it shall be void, and neither the Fund nor the General Partner shall 
be required to recognize any equitable or other claims to such Interest on the part of the purported Transferee thereof 
and (ii) the transferring Limited Partner shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Limited Partner.  Such default shall be 
governed by Section 6.1, and the General Partner may undertake any one or more of the remedies described in 
Section 6.1 with respect to such Defaulting Limited Partner.
(d)
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.1, no Transfer of any kind 
may be made unless it also complies with the requirements of Section 8.2.
(e)
[           ]
8.2.
Certain Conditions.  Any Transfer with the consent of the General Partner may be made only if 
such Transfer:
(a)
would not violate the terms and conditions of the Application or any order approving the 
Application;
28
(b)
would not violate the Delaware Act, any United States securities laws, or any state 
securities or “blue sky” laws (including any investor suitability standards), or any other jurisdiction applicable to the 
Fund or the Interest to be sold, exchanged, transferred or assigned;
(c)
would not create a material risk of the Fund being treated as a publicly traded partnership 
or other adverse tax consequences;
(d)
would not require the Fund to register as an “investment company” under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940, as amended from time to time (the “Investment Company Act”) or to register under any other 
United States securities laws;
(e)
would not violate any applicable law or regulation, including the BHCA and the Dodd-
Frank Act (including the Volcker Rule); and
(f)
is made to an “accredited investor” under Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933, 
as amended from time to time (the “Securities Act”).
8.3.
Transferee’s Agreement to be Bound; Effective Date of Transfer.
(a)
Any Transfer with the consent of the General Partner shall not be effective until the 
Transferee shall have:
(i)
accepted and assumed, in form reasonably satisfactory to the General Partner, all 
terms and provisions of this Agreement,
(ii)
executed and delivered to the General Partner a power of attorney as provided in 
Section 11.1,
(iii)
executed transfer documents satisfactory to the General Partner, and
(iv)
executed such other documents or instruments as the General Partner may 
reasonably require to effect the admission of such Transferee as a substituted Limited Partner and such 
Transferee is admitted as a substituted Limited Partner.
(b)
In addition, both the transferor Limited Partner and the Transferee must notify the 
General Partner in writing of the Transfer and must represent and warrant to the Fund and the General Partner that 
the Transfer was made in compliance with applicable law.  The transferor Limited Partner and the Transferee further 
agree to provide any information in connection with a Transfer that the General Partner requires in order to comply 
with mandatory basis adjustment rules and/or withholding or other tax requirements.
(c)
Any Transfer shall be recognized as effective as of the last day of the semi-annual period 
during which the notice required by Section 8.3(b) is delivered or such other date as determined by the General 
Partner.
(d)
Any Person who acquires all or any portion of the Interest of a Limited Partner shall be 
obligated to contribute to the Fund the appropriate portion of any amounts thereafter becoming due in respect of the 
capital commitment made by his, her or its predecessor in respect of such Interest.
8.4.
Substituted Partners.
(a)
The Limited Partners hereby consent to the admission of a substituted Limited Partner 
whose admission has been consented to by the General Partner.  Any such consent by the General Partner and the 
Limited Partners may be evidenced by the execution by the General Partner of an amendment to this Agreement (or 
29
an instrument incorporating by reference the basis of this Agreement) on its behalf and on behalf of all Limited 
Partners evidencing the admission of such Person as a Limited Partner and the making of any filing required by law.  
(b)
The General Partner shall make such filings with the appropriate authorities of each state 
in which the Fund transacts business as may be required to reflect changes in its Partners.
8.5.
Indemnity; Expenses of Transfer.
(a)
Each transferor Limited Partner shall indemnify and hold harmless the Fund, the General 
Partner and every Limited Partner who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, 
pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of 
or arising from any actual or alleged misrepresentation or misstatement of facts (or omission to state facts) made (or 
omitted to be made) by such transferor Limited Partner in connection with any Transfer of all or any part of an 
Interest, or in connection with the admission of a substituted Limited Partner to the Fund, against expenses for which 
the Fund or such other Person has not otherwise been reimbursed (including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and 
amounts paid in settlement) actually and reasonably incurred in connection with such action, suit or proceeding.
(b)
Each Limited Partner agrees to be responsible for and shall indemnify and hold the Fund 
and the General Partner harmless from and against all costs, including any transfer or other taxes due as a result of a 
Limited Partner’s Transfer and the cost of accounting for Transfers for U.S. income tax purposes, associated with an 
attempted or realized Transfer of any portion of its Interest regardless of whether or not the General Partner consents 
to the Transfer.
8.6.
Death or Incapacity of Limited Partner, etc.; Acquisition of Such Partner’s Interest by the General 
Partner.
(a)
If a Limited Partner dies, his or her executor, administrator or trustee, or if he or she 
becomes an adjudicated incompetent, his or her committee, guardian or conservator, or if he, she or it becomes 
bankrupt, the trustee or receiver of his or her estate, shall have all the rights of a Limited Partner for the purpose of 
settling or managing the Interest of such incapacitated Limited Partner, and such power as the incapacitated Limited 
Partner possessed to Transfer all or any part of the incapacitated Limited Partner’s Interest in accordance with this 
Article VIII.
(b)
In the event of (i) the death or adjudication of incompetence of a Limited Partner or 
(ii) except as otherwise consented to by the General Partner, including any direct or indirect Transfer of interests in, 
or any direct or indirect change in control of, any entity directly or indirectly investing in the Fund, Goldman Sachs 
(or one of its affiliates, including the General Partner) may, but will have no obligation to, cause the Fund to 
purchase, redeem or cause the Transfer of the Limited Partner’s vested Interest [           ] and/or forfeiture of any 
unvested Interests.  If the General Partner elects to exercise its right to cause the Fund to purchase, redeem or cause 
the Transfer of the Limited Partner’s vested Interest and/or forfeiture of any unvested Interests, then such Limited 
Partner or such Limited Partner’s executor, administrator, committee, guardian or conservator, as the case may be, 
shall be obligated to sell such vested Interests and/or forfeit such unvested Interests to the General Partner or such 
affiliate or designee.  Any such purchase will be at the then Fair Value of such vested Interests, and any such 
forfeiture will be for no consideration.
(c)
The Fund may, but is not obligated to, purchase from the Fund’s funds for the Fund’s 
account any Interest tendered to the General Partner pursuant to this Section 8.6.
8.7.
Consequences of Departure, Breach of GS Agreements, etc.  Except as set forth in this Section 8.7, 
a Limited Partner’s Equity Interest [           ] shall vest on December 31, [   ].  Except as set forth in this Section 8.7, 
a Class O Limited Partner’s Class O Interest will vest on the following schedule: (i) one-third of a Class O Limited 
Partner’s Class O Interest will vest on December 31, [   ], (ii) an additional one-third of such Class O Limited 
Partner’s Class O Interest will vest on December 31, [   ] (for a total amount of two-thirds of such Class O Limited 
Partner’s Class O Interest having vested as of such date, including the amount vested on December 31, [   ]), and (iii) 
the final one-third of such Class O Limited Partner’s Class O Interest will vest on December 31, [   ] (for a total 
30
amount of 100% of such Class O Limited Partner’s Class O Interest having vested as of such date, including the 
amounts vested on December 31, [   ] and December 31, [   ]) (the foregoing vesting schedule set forth in this 
sentence, the “Class O Vesting Schedule”).
(a)
If (i) an Unlevered Limited Partner leaves Goldman Sachs, for any reason (whether due 
to voluntary or involuntary termination of employment) or (ii) an event described in clause (i) occurs with respect to 
any employee of Goldman Sachs whose Affiliated Investor Entity or Eligible Family Member is an Unlevered 
Limited Partner (an “Unlevered Limited Partner Related Employee”), in each case, before December 31, [●], then 
the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to (a) convert such Unlevered Limited Partner’s Class 
A Interest to a Class C Interest (as described in Section 8.7(g)), or (b) cause the redemption, purchase or Transfer of 
the Unlevered Limited Partner’s Class A Interest or Class C Interest on the next Purchase Date, upon the terms set 
forth in this Section 8.7.  A Transfer of a Class A Interest or Class C Interest as described above may be made to 
Goldman Sachs, one or more Limited Partners or Eligible Investors, to the extent permitted by law, as determined by 
the General Partner in its sole discretion.  “Eligible Family Member” has the meaning ascribed to it in the 
Application.
(b)
[           ]
(c)
Each Class O Limited Partner’s Class O Interests are subject to the Class O Vesting 
Schedule.  Upon a Class O Limited Partner’s or Related Employee’s departure from Goldman Sachs for any reason 
(whether due to the voluntary or involuntary termination of employment) prior to December 31, [   ], the General 
Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the forfeiture, for no consideration, of the unvested 
portion of the Limited Partner’s Class O Interest.  This Section 8.7(c) shall apply irrespective of retirement, 
involuntary termination (including due to downsizing), death or adjudication of incompetence prior to December 31, 
[   ] (i.e., vesting will not be accelerated for any reason).
(d)
(i)
If Goldman Sachs determines that a Limited Partner or Related Employee has 
failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation under any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered 
into in connection with the Limited Partner’s employment, including the Firm’s notice period requirements, 
applicable restrictive covenants (such as restrictions on association with a Competitive Enterprise, 
Association with a Covered Enterprise, Engaging in Solicitation, and similar terms or concepts), any offer 
letter, employment agreement or any shareholders’ agreement relating to Goldman Sachs (the “GS 
Agreements”), any vesting achieved within the twelve-month period prior to the termination of such 
Limited Partner’s employment will be reversed for any Goldman Sachs employee special investments in 
which such Limited Partner is invested.  If Goldman Sachs determines that a Limited Partner or Related 
Employee has breached a GS Agreement applicable to such Limited Partner or Related Employee, the 
General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to [           ] cause the redemption, purchase or 
transfer of any Interest held by such Limited Partner or Related Employee on the next Purchase Date, upon 
the terms set forth in this Section 8.7[           ].
(ii)
The General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the 
forfeiture for no consideration of some or all of the Class O Interests of a Class O Limited Partner whether 
or not vested, if (A) such Class O Limited Partner is a UK investor that is considered a “Material Risk 
Taker” and any of the following events occurs prior to the seventh anniversary of the issuance of the 
applicable Class O Interest(s) (which period may be extended by the General Partner in the event of any 
action, proceeding or investigation in connection with any of the following events is initiated by Goldman 
Sachs or a third party prior to the end of such seven year period): (i) the GS Group fails to maintain the 
required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” as defined under Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable 
to the GS Group for a period of 90 consecutive business days; (ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) makes a written recommendation under 
Title II (Orderly Liquidation Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Act for the appointment of the FDIC as a 
receiver of the GS Group based on a determination that the GS Group is “in default” or “in danger of 
31
default”; (iii) (x) an annual pre-tax loss at the GS Group or (y) annual negative revenues in one or more 
reporting segments as disclosed in the Firm’s Form 10-K other than the Asset Management segment, or 
annual negative revenues in the Asset Management segment of $5 billion or more, provided in either case 
that such Class O Limited Partner is employed in a business within such reporting segment; (iv) there 
occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital from a reportable operational risk event determined in 
accordance with the firmwide Reporting Operational Risk Events Policy; (v) such Class O Limited Partner 
engages in conduct that the Firm reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to 
justify summary termination of employment under English law; or (vi) an individual with respect to whom 
the committee appointed by the Board of Directors of the GS Group determines such Class O Limited 
Partner had supervisory responsibility as a result of direct or indirect reporting lines or such Class O 
Limited Partner’s management responsibility for an office, division or business, engages during the 
calendar year in which such Class O Limited Partner’s Class O Interest was issued, in conduct that the Firm 
reasonably considers, in its sole discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary termination of 
employment under English law, (B) such Class O Limited Partner is a German Class O Limited Partner 
who is a material risk taker designated by the Firm in accordance with applicable law and regulation 
(including a German Class O Limited Partner that is a management board member) (a “German MRT”) and 
prior to the seventh anniversary of the issuance of the relevant Class O Interests (which period may be 
extended by the General Partner in the event of any action, proceeding or investigation in connection with 
any of the following events is initiated by Goldman Sachs or a third party prior to the end of such seven 
year period): (i) the applicable German MRT significantly contributed to, or was responsible for, any 
conduct that resulted in (a) a considerable loss (in particular, but not limited to, an unexpected loss of 
0.75% (which may also be reached in sum by several individual losses) or more of the total capital of the 
GS Group), (b) a material regulatory sanction for the Firm comprising one or more of the following (1) a 
moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g German Banking Act (“Kreditwesengesetz” / “KWG”), (2) a measure in 
case of danger pursuant to sec. 46 German Banking Act, (3) the revocation of appointment of a manager 
pursuant to sec. 36 German Banking Act, (4) a fine pursuant to sec. 56 German Banking Act or a threatened 
penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of the GS 
Group, (5) the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 German Banking Act, (6) an order to 
increase the capital requirements by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 German Banking Act, (7) a measure 
in case of organizational deficiencies pursuant to sec. 45b German Banking Act, or (8) a comparable 
regulatory order or (c) a material supervisory measure; or (ii) the Applicable German MRT acted in serious 
violation of relevant external or internal rules with respect to suitability and conduct, provided that relevant 
regulations relating to the suitability and conduct of the members of the Board of Management include all 
regulations relating to conduct and professional suitability, compliance with which is necessary for the 
maintenance of a proper business organization within the meaning of Section 25a (1) sentence 1 German 
Banking Act, and provided that a violation is always considered serious if it is due to grossly negligent or 
intentional behavior or if it is suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant to sec. 626 
German Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct (“verhaltensbedingte Kündigung”) 
pursuant to sec. 1 German Termination Protection Act (Kündigungsschutzgesetz), (C) such Class O 
Limited Partner is a Dutch investor who works under the responsibility of GSAM BV (a “Dutch Class O 
Limited Partner”), and any of the following events occurs prior to the fifth anniversary of the issuance of 
the applicable Class O Interest(s): (i) the Dutch Class O Limited Partner has not met appropriate standards 
of competence and proper conduct; or (ii) the Dutch Class O Limited Partner was responsible for behaviors 
that have significantly deteriorated the financial position of GSAM BV, or (D) such Class O Limited 
Partner is a Dutch Class O Limited Partner and any of the following occurs prior to the fifth anniversary of 
the issuance of the applicable Class O Interest(s): (i) the award of the Class O Interest(s) to the Class O 
Limited Partner would be unacceptable according to standards of reasonableness and fairness; or (ii) the 
Class O Interest(s) have been awarded on the basis of incorrect information about the achievement of the 
goals underlying the award or about the circumstances on which the award was dependent. For the 
avoidance of doubt, an Affiliated Investor Entity will be considered a Material Risk Taker, German MRT 
32
or Dutch Class O Limited Partner, if the Related Employee of such Affiliated Investor Entity is a Material 
Risk Taker, German MRT or Dutch Class O Limited Partner, as applicable.
(iii)
Furthermore, if Goldman Sachs determines that (A) any employee of Goldman 
Sachs who is a Limited Partner or (B) any Related Employee (i) Fails to Consider Risk at any time prior to 
the liquidation of the Fund, (ii) at any time engages in any conduct that constitutes Cause, or (iii) at any 
time fails to certify to Goldman Sachs, in accordance with procedures established by the General Partner, 
that such Limited Partner or such Related Employee is in compliance with, or the General Partner 
determines that such Limited Partner or Related Employee in fact has failed to comply with all the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement and his, her or its subscription agreement, then the General Partner will 
have the right, but not the obligation, to [           ] cause the forfeiture for no consideration of any Class O 
Interests of such Limited Partner [           ]; in each case, whether such Limited Partner’s Interests have 
vested or not.  [           ]
(e)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 8.7, at any time Goldman Sachs may, 
in its sole discretion, determine to suspend a Limited Partner’s vesting period (for instance, if such Limited Partner 
is placed on administrative leave), and any such suspension of a Limited Partner’s vesting period (the “Suspension 
Period”) shall automatically extend the time period required to vest by the number of days the Suspension Period 
continues.  Any termination of the Suspension Period shall be at the sole discretion of Goldman Sachs.  In addition 
to the other remedies set forth above, at any time on or after December 31, [   ] (or, with respect to Class O Interests 
at any time on or after December 31, [   ], December 31, [   ], and/or December 31, [   ], as applicable), the General 
Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the redemption, purchase or transfer of a Limited 
Partner’s vested interest at a price equal to the then-current fair market value of such Limited Partner’s vested 
Interest, as determined by the General Partner in its sole discretion, payable in cash, in kind and / or by delivery of a 
note (or any combination of the foregoing) as described in Section 8.7(i).
(f)
Upon any forfeiture of Class O Interests, a Class O Limited Partner may be required, in 
Goldman Sachs’ sole discretion, to return any Carried Interest previously distributed to such Class O Limited 
Partner (even though such Class O Limited Partner may have been taxed on income allocated in respect of such 
Carried Interest and/or paid expenses incurred in connection with the formation and implementation of any such 
Carried Interest arrangement).  Amounts required to be returned in connection with a forfeiture will not include 
amounts corresponding to tax distributions, tax advances or similar amounts from Carried Interest Paying Funds.  
Subject to applicable law, forfeited Carried Interest shall be reallocated to Goldman Sachs (and therefore may be 
reallocated at a later date) and/or to new or existing Limited Partners.  Any forfeited Carried Interest that is 
reallocated to new and/or existing Limited Partners may be subject to a different vesting schedule (including a 
shorter or longer vesting schedule).  Upon the forfeiture of all or a portion of a Limited Partner’s Class O Interest, 
such Limited Partner may be required, in the Investment Manager’s sole discretion, to return any Carried Interest 
Tax Distribution Amount previously distributed in respect of such forfeited Class O Interest.  A conversion, 
purchase or Transfer of Interests or forfeiture of Class O Interests as described above may have adverse tax 
consequences.
(g)
[           ]
(h)
[           ]
(i)
The purchase price for any Interest acquired pursuant to Section 8.7(a), (b), (d), (e) or 
(l) shall be an amount equal to the lesser of (i) such Limited Partner’s capital contributions plus interest at the 
Interest Rate (net of any distributions) (the “Net Contributed Capital”), and (ii) an amount equal to the then Fair 
Value of such Limited Partner’s Interest (such lesser amount, the “Minimum Purchase Price”), payable in cash, in 
kind or by delivery of a note (or any combination of the foregoing).  [           ]  For purposes hereof, the “Fair Value” 
of an Interest in the Fund shall be determined by the General Partner in its discretion at the time any such 
redemption, purchase, Transfer or withdrawal takes place (as determined without regard to the tax consequences of 
the receipt of income or gain therefrom) as an amount equal to the fair market value of such Interest at such point in 
time[           ].  A Transfer of an Interest as described herein may be made to Goldman Sachs, its affiliates, one or 
33
more Limited Partners or Eligible Investors, to the extent permitted by law, as determined by the General Partner in 
its sole discretion.  For the avoidance of doubt, such purchase price will take into account any distributions 
previously made, and, in the case of Interests that are subject to retroactive conversion, any future distributions in 
respect of these Interests may be adjusted by taking account of the distributions made before the date of conversion.  
The purchase price may reflect an illiquidity discount.  The Limited Partners hereby acknowledge that (x) if an 
Interest is sold to a third party buyer, the purchase price will reflect only what such third party buyer would be 
willing to pay for the Interests, (y) in each case, the price of such Interests may represent a substantial discount to 
such Limited Partner’s Net Contributed Capital or Capital Account value, and (z) any redemption, purchase or 
Transfer of Interests may be payable in cash, in kind or by delivery of a note (or combination of any of the 
foregoing).
(j)
The “Interest Rate” will be six-month SOFR plus 115 basis points, subject to change 
from time to time, and at any time, in the discretion of the General Partner (including, for the avoidance of doubt, 
that the General Partner may at any time decide in its sole discretion to use a different benchmark).
(k)
Payment of the purchase price shall be made on May 30 of the year immediately 
following the year during which Goldman Sachs or the Fund exercises its election to purchase or cause the Transfer 
of any Limited Partner’s Interest pursuant to this Agreement, or any other date as the General Partner may determine 
from time to time (any such date, a “Purchase Date”).  For this purpose, a payment will be deemed to have been paid 
(i) if payment is made by check, when it has been deposited by Goldman Sachs in the U.S. mail or delivered to a 
reputable courier service or (ii) if payment is made by deposit into a brokerage account, when the payment is 
deposited into the Limited Partner’s or Related Employee’s (as the case may be) brokerage account.  Goldman Sachs 
will have no obligation to provide any notice of purchase other than the notice accompanying payment.  The 
effective date of the purchase and the date of payment may be different days.  Notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary in this Agreement, any Transfer upon a purchase pursuant to this Section 8.7 shall, for all purposes of this 
Agreement, be effective as of the close of business on the date determined by the General Partner.  If the effective 
date of the Transfer is any date other than the date on which the price was calculated, then for purposes of 
determining the purchase price, the Limited Partner’s Capital Account balance shall be appropriately adjusted to 
reflect any contributions and distributions made in respect of such Limited Partner’s Interest after the date on which 
the price was calculated.
(l)
In addition to the other rights that Goldman Sachs has under this Section 8.7, if Goldman 
Sachs determines that a Limited Partner or a Related Employee may have breached any of his, her or its 
representations, warranties or covenants made in the subscription agreement or otherwise made in connection with 
the acquisition of an Interest, then the General Partner shall have the right to cause the redemption, purchase, 
Transfer or forfeiture, or require the withdrawal, of the Limited Partner’s Interest on the Purchase Date, using the 
purchase price calculation set forth in Section 8.7(h), payable in cash, in kind or by delivery of a note (or any 
combination of the foregoing), or, in the case of forfeiture, for no consideration.  Additionally, the General Partner, 
in its sole discretion and without the consent of any Limited Partner, may take any action, including (i) causing the 
redemption, purchase or Transfer of any Limited Partner’s Interests in the Fund to Goldman Sachs, its affiliates or 
one or more other Limited Partners or Eligible Investors, to the extent permitted by law, (ii) causing the forfeiture of 
any Limited Partner’s unvested Class O Interest or (iii) requiring the withdrawal of any Limited Partner, at a price 
equal to the then Fair Value of such Limited Partner’s Interest for payment in cash, in kind, by delivery of a note (or 
any combination of the foregoing), or, in the case of forfeiture, for no consideration and/or in exchange for a 
participation interest (or any combination of the foregoing) and on such other terms and conditions as the General 
Partner may determine, in each case, without regard to any applicable tax consequences (including consequences of 
Transfer) and (x) as the General Partner or Goldman Sachs in its discretion determines is necessary or advisable for 
Goldman Sachs or any of its affiliates to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations (including the BHCA or 
the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Volcker Rule) affecting the Fund, the Limited Partners, Goldman Sachs or any of 
its affiliates or (y) if the General Partner determines that the continued participation of the Limited Partner in the 
Fund may cause the Fund, the General Partner or any of their respective affiliates to be (or remain) in violation of 
the terms and conditions of the Application or any order approving the Application, or any U.S. federal or state law, 
rule or regulation, including SOX or the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Volcker Rule, or have an adverse effect on 
the business or operations of Goldman Sachs, or otherwise raise tax, legal (including contractual restrictions) or 
34
regulatory issues.  [           ]  By exercising any of its rights, or taking any of the actions described above, the General 
Partner may cause distributions in kind of non-marketable securities, forced sales of Interests by some or all Limited 
Partners (for notes or other consideration), or resignation of Goldman Sachs as the Investment Manager and/or the 
General Partner.  Furthermore, the General Partner may exercise any such rights or authorized actions in its sole 
discretion and with respect to certain or all Limited Partners in a manner that may disproportionately affect some 
Limited Partners relative to other Limited Partners (even similarly situated Limited Partners) and the General Partner 
will have no duty (implied or otherwise) to mitigate the effect on any Limited Partners or to treat any similarly 
situated Limited Partners similarly.
(m)
The General Partner may waive, on a case-by-case basis, its rights under this Section 8.7 
to cause the Transfer or forfeiture of, convert and/or purchase Interests, [           ] and/or the retroactivity of any 
conversion or forfeiture.  In addition to any other rights described herein, the General Partner shall have the right to 
cause the redemption, purchase, Transfer or forfeiture of any Interests in any manner that does not adversely affect a 
Limited Partner.
(n)
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as giving any Limited Partner or any 
Related Employee any right to continued employment with Goldman Sachs or as affecting any right that Goldman 
Sachs may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of any such Limited Partner’s or Related Employee’s 
employment.
(o)
[           ]
(p)
All references to the termination of employment with or departure from Goldman Sachs 
are deemed to occur immediately following any “garden leave” or similar notice period.
(q)
“Association with a Covered Enterprise” means that a Limited Partner or Related 
Employee (i) forms, or acquires a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any 
Covered Enterprise or (ii) associates in any capacity (including association as an officer, employee, partner, director, 
consultant, agent or advisor) with any Covered Enterprise.  “Association with a Covered Enterprise” may include, as 
determined in the discretion of Goldman Sachs, (i) becoming the subject of any publicly available announcement or 
report of a pending or future association with a Covered Enterprise and (ii) unpaid associations, including an 
association in contemplation of future employment.
(r)
“Cause” means the Limited Partner’s (i) conviction, whether following trial or by plea of 
guilty or nolo contendere (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (A) on a misdemeanor charge involving fraud, 
false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or 
extortion or (B) on a felony charge or (C) on an equivalent charge to those in clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions 
which do not use those designations; (ii) engaging in any conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification 
under applicable law (including statutory disqualification as defined under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended); (iii) willful failure to perform the Limited Partner’s duties to the Firm; (iv) violation of any 
securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of 
any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Firm is a member; (v) violation of any Firm 
policy concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or material violation of any other 
Firm policy as in effect from time to time; (vi) engaging in any act or making any statement which impairs, 
impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Firm, 
including any of its portfolio companies; or (vii) engaging in any conduct detrimental to the Firm, including any of 
its portfolio companies.  All determinations of whether any act or omission constitutes “Cause” in any particular 
case will be made by Goldman Sachs and will be final and binding on all parties.
(s)
“Client” means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the applicable 
Limited Partner or Related Employee provided services, or for whom the applicable Limited Partner or Related 
Employee transacted business, or whose identity became known to the applicable Limited Partner or Related 
Employee in connection with such Limited Partner’s or Related Employee’s relationship with or employment by the 
Firm.
35
(t)
“Commencement of the Fund’s Operations” shall mean the first date on which 
subscriptions of Limited Partners (other than the Initial Limited Partner) for investment in the Fund are accepted by 
the General Partner.
(u)
“Competitive Enterprise” means an existing or planned business enterprise that (i) 
engages, or may reasonably be expected to engage, in any activity, (ii) owns or controls, or may reasonably be 
expected to own or control, a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity or (iii) is, or may 
reasonably be expected to be, owned by, or a significant interest in which is, or may reasonably be expected to be, 
owned or controlled by, any entity that engages in any activity, that, in any case, competes or will compete 
anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged.  The activities covered by this definition 
include:  financial services such as investment banking; public or private finance; lending; financial advisory 
services; private investing for anyone other than the applicable Limited Partner or Related Employee and members 
of the applicable Limited Partner’s or Related Employee’s family (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any 
proprietary investing or trading); private wealth management; private banking; consumer or commercial cash 
management; consumer, digital or commercial banking; merchant banking; asset, portfolio or hedge fund 
management; insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property management; or securities, futures, 
commodities, energy, derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance, settlement 
or trading.
(v)
“Covered Enterprise” means a Competitive Enterprise and any other existing or planned 
business enterprise that:  (i) offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer products or 
services that are the same as or similar to those offered by the Firm or that the Firm reasonably expects to offer 
(“Firm Products or Services”) or (ii) engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to 
engage in any other activity that is the same as or similar to any financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which 
the Firm reasonably expects to engage (“Firm Activities”).  For the avoidance of doubt, Firm Activities include any 
activity that requires the same or similar skills as any financial activity engaged in by the Firm or in which the Firm 
reasonably expects to engage, irrespective of whether any such financial activity is in furtherance of an advisory, 
agency, proprietary or fiduciary undertaking.
The enterprises covered by this definition include enterprises that offer, hold themselves out as 
offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services, or engage in, hold themselves out as 
engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities directly, as well as those that do so 
indirectly by ownership or control (e.g., by owning, being owned by or being under common ownership with an 
enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services 
or that engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may be expected to engage in Firm Activities).  The 
definition of Covered Enterprise includes, solely by way of example, any enterprise that offers, holds itself out as 
offering or reasonably may be expected to offer any product or service, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in 
or reasonably may be expected to engage in any activity, in any case, associated with investment banking; public or 
private finance; lending; financial advisory services; private investing for anyone other than the applicable Limited 
Partner or Related Employee or family members of the applicable Limited Partner or Related Employee (including, 
for the avoidance of doubt, any type of proprietary investing or trading); private wealth management; private 
banking; consumer or commercial cash management; consumer, digital or commercial banking; merchant banking; 
asset, portfolio or hedge fund management; insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage; property 
management; or securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives, currency or digital asset brokerage, sales, 
lending, custody, clearance, settlement or trading.  An enterprise that offers, holds itself out as offering or reasonably 
may be expected to offer Firm Products or Services, or engages in, holds itself out as engaging in or reasonably may 
be expected to engage in Firm Activities is a Covered Enterprise, irrespective of whether the enterprise is a 
customer, client or counterparty of the Firm or is otherwise associated with the Firm and, because the Firm is 
a global enterprise, irrespective of where the Covered Enterprise is physically located.
36
(w)
“Engages in Solicitation” means (i) a Limited Partner, in any manner, directly or 
indirectly, (A) Solicits any Client to transact business with a Covered Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing 
any business with the Firm, (B) interferes with or damages (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship 
between the Firm and any Client, (C) Solicits any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign from the Firm, 
(D) Solicits any Selected Firm Personnel to apply for or accept employment (or other association) with any person 
or entity other than the Firm, or (E) hires or participates in the hiring of any Selected Firm Personnel by any person 
or entity other than the Firm (including participating in the identification of individuals for potential hire, and 
participating in any hiring decision), whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (ii) Selected Firm 
Personnel are solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status by (A) any entity that a 
Limited Partner forms, that bears a Limited Partner’s name, or in which a Limited Partner possesses or controls 
greater than a de minimis equity ownership, voting or profit participation, or (B) any entity where a Limited Partner 
has, or will have, direct or indirect managerial responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel.  Alternative 
formulations of this term (e.g., “Engaging in Solicitation”) will have their correlative meanings.
(x)
“Fails to Consider Risk” means that the Limited Partner participated (or otherwise 
oversaw or was responsible for, depending on the circumstances, another individual’s participation) in the 
structuring or marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the 
purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the 
Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where the Limited Partner has improperly analyzed 
such risk or where the Limited Partner has failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of 
such action or omission, Goldman Sachs determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be, a 
material adverse impact on the Firm, the Limited Partner’s business unit or the broader financial system.
(y)
“Firm” means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
(z)
“Selected Firm Personnel” means any individual who is or in the three months preceding 
the prohibited conduct was (i) a Firm employee or consultant with whom the Limited Partner personally worked 
while employed by the Firm, (ii) a Firm employee or consultant who, at any time during the year preceding the date 
of the termination of the Limited Partner’s employment, worked in the same division in which the Limited Partner 
worked or (iii) an Advisory Director, a Managing Director or a Senior Advisor of the Firm.
(aa)
“Solicit” means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless 
of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, suggesting, encouraging or requesting any Person or entity, in any manner, 
to take or refrain from taking any action.
8.8.
General Partner Purchase.  If the General Partner or Goldman Sachs purchases any Interest 
pursuant to Sections 6.1(c), 8.6, 8.7 or 8.9 for its own account and not for the account of the Fund, the General 
Partner or Goldman Sachs, as the case may be, shall be entitled to the rights of a Transferee of such Interest and 
shall be entitled to vote (except as provided herein) such Interest as if it were a substituted Limited Partner or to be 
admitted as a substituted Limited Partner.  Subject to this Article VIII, the General Partner or Goldman Sachs may 
Transfer any Interest acquired by it under the provisions of such Sections on such terms as are acceptable to it, and if 
the transferee of such Interest is not a Limited Partner of the Fund, such transferee will be entitled to be admitted to 
the Fund as a substituted Limited Partner with respect to such Interest.  The effective date of any such Transfer shall 
be the last day of the semi-annual period during which payment is made by the transferee of such Interest or such 
other day as the General Partner, the transferor and the transferee may agree.
8.9.
Withdrawal of Limited Partners.  No Limited Partner may withdraw from the Fund or withdraw or 
require redemption of some or all of its Capital Account without the written consent of the General Partner, which 
consent may be granted or withheld by the General Partner in its sole discretion.  In addition, the General Partner 
may require the partial or total withdrawal of a Limited Partner from the Fund (a “Required Withdrawal”) upon at 
least five (5) days’ prior written notice if the General Partner determines, that the continued participation of such 
Limited Partner may adversely affect any of the Funds (including for any tax or regulatory purposes), any Limited 
Partner, the General Partner (or other parties with authority to act) or any of their respective affiliates, or otherwise 
give rise to any business, tax, legal or regulatory issues.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the 
General Partner may require the partial or total withdrawal of any Limited Partner from the Fund if:
37
(a)
the General Partner determines that the continued participation of that Limited Partner 
with respect to all or a portion of its Interest may:
(i)
require registration of the interests of any of the Funds (under the Securities Act, 
or any other securities laws applicable to any of the Funds);
(ii)
cause any of the Funds to fail to qualify for an exemption from registration 
under the Investment Company Act (including causing one or more of the Funds to violate the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Application or any order approving the Application), or any other law or 
regulation requiring the regulation of collective investment schemes that the General Partner believes to be 
otherwise than in the best interests of any of the Funds;
(iii)
result in any direct or indirect material adverse tax consequences to any of the 
Funds (or any of the Underlying Funds) (or any of the Funds’ (or any of the Underlying Funds’) investors 
generally), including any of the Funds’ (or any of the Underlying Funds’) failing to comply with FATCA or 
being subject to withholding tax under FATCA;
(iv)
result in any violation of applicable laws or regulations, including the BHCA, 
SOX or the Dodd-Frank Act (including the Volcker Rule); or
(v)
otherwise cause the Fund or any of its affiliates, including Goldman Sachs, to be 
in violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation or have an adverse business, legal or regulatory 
consequence to the Fund or any of its affiliates, including Goldman Sachs;
(b)
such Limited Partner (i) engages in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which the 
General Partner determines could result in reputational harm to the Fund, Goldman Sachs or its affiliates or (ii) 
illegally or fraudulently obtained the funds which such Limited Partner utilized to make its contributions;
(c)
there is any breach of such Limited Partner’s representations, warranties or covenants in 
the subscription agreement, this Agreement or related documents executed by such Limited Partner; or
(d)
such Limited Partner is convicted of, or pleads nolo contendere to, a felony or serious 
misdemeanor.
If a Limited Partner is subject to a Required Withdrawal described in (i) Section 8.9(a) above, the 
General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause (1) the partial or total redemption, purchase or 
Transfer of any [           ] vested Class O Interests of such Limited Partner (including to Goldman Sachs, its affiliates, 
one or more other employees or other purchasers) on the next Purchase Date, at a price equal to the then Fair Value 
of such Limited Partner’s Interest, payable in cash, in kind or by delivery of a note (or any combination of the 
foregoing) and/or (2) the forfeiture, for no consideration, of [           ] unvested Class O Interests of such Limited 
Partner, or, (ii) Section 8.9(b), 8.9(c) or 8.9(d) above, the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, 
to cause [           ] the forfeiture, for no consideration, of [           ] any Class O Interests of such Limited Partner 
(whether or not vested).  [           ]
Upon any Required Withdrawal of a Limited Partner described above, Goldman Sachs, the Fund 
and their respective affiliates may be restricted under certain circumstances from purchasing all or a portion of such 
Limited Partner’s Interest due to legal and other regulatory restrictions applicable to Goldman Sachs and its 
affiliates.  A Transfer of an Interest upon withdrawal as described above may be made, in whole or in part, to 
Goldman Sachs, its affiliates, one or more Limited Partners or Eligible Investors, to the extent permitted by law.
38
Each Limited Partner acknowledges and agrees that, because the investment will be illiquid and is 
subject to legal and contractual transfer restrictions and because the Fund’s ability to permit transfers of interests in 
the Fund is limited, actual payment in respect of a Limited Partner’s Interest in the Fund may take a substantial 
amount of time (potentially years) from the date a Limited Partner’s Interest in the Fund is terminated.
8.10.
Withdrawal or Substitution of the General Partner.  Subject to the requirements of the Fund and 
under the Delaware Act, the General Partner may, at any time, in its sole discretion, (a) assign all or a portion of its 
interest to any affiliate of Goldman Sachs or any other Person, as deemed necessary or advisable by the General 
Partner or Goldman Sachs in order to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations or other legal requirements 
(including the Dodd-Frank Act (including the Volcker Rule)), (b) in the General Partner’s discretion, admit an 
affiliate or such other Person or Persons as an additional or substitute General Partner, or (c) resign or withdraw 
from the Fund.
Article IX
Winding-up, Dissolution and Liquidation of the Fund
9.1.
Events Causing Winding-up and Dissolution.
(a)
The Fund shall be wound-up and dissolved upon the happening of any of the following 
events:
(i)
the retirement, bankruptcy, commencement of liquidation proceedings, 
resignation or withdrawal, insolvency or dissolution of the General Partner shall cause the immediate 
dissolution of the Fund, unless (1) the General Partner has admitted an additional or substitute General 
Partner pursuant to Section 8.10 or (2) a majority in interest of the Limited Partners, within ninety (90) days 
of such date of dissolution, elect one or more new general partners, in which case, the business of the Fund 
shall be continued; provided that if the Limited Partners elect to continue the Fund’s business, an 
appropriate amendment to the Fund’s Certificate of Limited Partnership shall be filed immediately after 
such election is made, but if no such election is made by a majority in interest of the Limited Partners then 
liquidation shall proceed in accordance with the terms of Section 9.2;
(ii)
the insolvency or bankruptcy of the Fund;
(iii)
the General Partner’s election at any time to wind-up and dissolve the Fund, 
including in the event that the general partners of the Underlying Funds, liquidate and dissolve the 
Underlying Funds prior to the end of the commitment period of the Underlying Funds in accordance with 
the governing documents of the Underlying Funds; or
(iv)
at any time that there are no Limited Partners of the Fund, unless the Fund is 
continued in accordance with the Delaware Act, or upon entry of a decree of judicial dissolution under 
Section 17-802 of the Delaware Act.
(b)
Subject to Section 9.1(a)(iii), winding-up and dissolution of the Fund shall commence on 
the date on which the event occurs giving rise to the winding-up and dissolution, but the Fund shall not terminate 
until the Fund’s Certificate of Limited Partnership has been canceled and the assets of the Fund have been 
distributed as provided in Section 9.2.
(c)
None of the death, incapacity, bankruptcy, insolvency, termination or dissolution of any 
Limited Partner (or Related Employee), the retirement from Goldman Sachs of any Limited Partner (or Related 
Employee), or the termination of any Limited Partner’s (or Related Employee’s) employment or consulting 
arrangement with Goldman Sachs, as applicable, shall result in the winding-up and dissolution of the Fund.
(d)
The General Partner may elect to terminate a Series at any time upon the disposition by 
that Series of all or substantially all of the assets relating to that Series.  The Fund shall not dissolve solely upon the 
39
termination of a Series under this Agreement; however, upon the dissolution of the Fund, each Series shall terminate 
without any further action by the General Partner or any other Person.
9.2.
Liquidation.  The winding-up and dissolution of the Fund’s business shall be liquidated in an 
orderly manner.  The General Partner, or its designee, shall be the liquidator to wind up the affairs of the Fund 
pursuant to this Agreement, except that if there shall be no General Partner or, in the event that the General Partner 
has resigned without replacement, withdrawn without replacement, dissolved or is bankrupt, a majority-in-interest of 
the Limited Partners (including any Institutional Limited Partners) shall elect a Person to perform the functions of 
the General Partner in liquidating the assets of the Fund and in winding up its affairs.  At the termination of the 
Fund, without limiting the provisions of Section 1.7, the General Partner (or other liquidator appointed by the 
Limited Partners pursuant to this Section 9.2) shall determine which assets of the Fund shall be sold and which 
assets of the Fund shall be retained for distribution in kind to the Partners.  After all fees, expenses, liabilities and 
other obligations of the Fund have been paid or duly provided for, the remaining assets and cash (if any) of the Fund 
shall be distributed to the Limited Partners in accordance with the positive balance in their Capital Accounts 
determined as of the date of distribution in accordance with Articles VI and VII.  In performing its duties, the 
liquidator is authorized to sell, distribute, exchange or otherwise dispose of the assets of the Fund in any reasonable 
manner that the liquidator shall determine to be in the best interest of the Partners.  During the liquidation of the 
Fund, the liquidator shall furnish to the Partners the financial statements and other information specified in Article 
X.  The expenses incurred by the liquidator in connection with winding up the Fund, all other losses or liabilities of 
the Fund incurred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and reasonable compensation for the services of 
the liquidator shall be borne by the Fund.  The liquidator shall dispose of or distribute all Fund assets (other than 
those being held to make reasonable provision for the payment of liabilities of the Fund) within a reasonable period 
of time, taking into account the nature of the Fund’s remaining assets, the need to comply with any contractual 
restrictions, including the terms of indebtedness to which the Fund or any financing vehicle is subject, the degree of 
participation of the liquidator in the management of entities whose securities are owned by the Fund, the financial 
and other effects of a distribution to the Partners of assets in kind and the objective of maximizing the value of the 
Fund’s assets.  The liquidator shall not be liable to any Partner for any loss attributable to any act or omission of the 
liquidator taken in good faith on its part in connection with the liquidation of the Fund and the distribution of its 
assets.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the General Partner has the right to liquidate the Fund, in the manner 
described in this Section 9.2, at any time or as otherwise provided by operation of law.
9.3.
Potential Early Liquidation of Investments.  In order to provide for an orderly and timely 
liquidation of the Fund, any investments of the Fund may be, subject to applicable law, purchased by Goldman 
Sachs, its affiliates, one or more other employees or other purchasers, at any time on or after the tenth (10th) 
anniversary of the final closing of the Carried Interest Paying Funds.  Any such purchase would be made using a 
purchase price equal to the then net asset value of such interests or other investments (as determined by Goldman 
Sachs in its sole discretion), payable in cash, in kind and/or by delivery of a note (or any combination of the 
foregoing).  Any proposed transactions pursuant to this Section 9.3 will be effected only in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the Application or any order approving the Application.  The Application permits such 
transactions upon a determination by the General Partner that the terms of the transactions are fair and reasonable to 
the investors in the Fund and do not involve overreaching of the Fund or its investors on the part of any person 
concerned, and that the transactions are consistent with the interests of the investors in the Fund.  In making this 
determination, the General Partner may consider (1) the terms upon which Goldman Sachs or any Third Party Fund 
are participating in the transaction, (2) the consideration being paid or received by the Fund, (3) the methodology for 
allocating the investment / disposition opportunity among the Fund and the other participants in the transaction and 
(4) other factors that it deems relevant.  Each Limited Partner acknowledges that by entering into this Agreement, 
such Limited Partner consents to all such transactions in which Goldman Sachs or an affiliate acts as a principal on 
the other side of a transaction with the Fund, provided that such transactions meet the requirements set forth in the 
Application or any order approving the Application.
Article X
Books and Records; Accounting;
Valuation; Tax Matters and Elections
10.1.
Books and Records.  The General Partner shall provide the Limited Partners with such access to 
the books and records of the Fund and the General Partner as they are entitled under the Delaware Act, provided, 
however, that the General Partner may in its discretion, to the fullest extent permitted by law, withhold from such 
Limited Partners certain information to which they are otherwise entitled to receive.  Such information may be used 
for Fund purposes only.  The Fund shall maintain books and records as required by the Delaware Act and may 
maintain such other books and records and may provide such financial or other statements as the General Partner 
deems advisable.
40
10.2.
Accounting Basis.  The books and records, and the financial statements and reports, of the Fund 
shall be kept in accordance with GAAP.
10.3.
Bank Accounts.  The General Partner shall maintain the Fund’s bank account, and withdrawals 
shall be made only in the ordinary course of the Fund business on such signature or signatures as the General Partner 
may determine.  Temporary investments are deemed activities in the ordinary course of Fund business.
10.4.
Reports.
(a)
After the close of the Fund’s taxable year, the General Partner will send or cause to be 
sent to each Person who was a Limited Partner at any time during the taxable year then ended tax information 
concerning the Fund for use in the preparation by the Limited Partner of the Limited Partner’s U.S. federal and state 
income tax returns.  The foregoing tax information may be prepared by internal staff of Goldman Sachs or by a 
nationally recognized accounting firm.  Whether internal staff of Goldman Sachs or an accounting firm prepares the 
tax information, the costs of preparation and delivery will be borne by the Fund.  The Fund does not expect that it 
will provide a Schedule K-1 to the Limited Partners in advance of April 15th; therefore, each Limited Partner should 
be prepared to file for an extension of the filing date for his, her or its U.S. federal income tax returns (and any 
required U.S. state, local, or non-U.S., tax returns).  Each Limited Partner will be responsible for the preparation and 
filing of such Limited Partner’s own income tax returns.
(b)
The General Partner will send to each Person who was a Limited Partner at the end of the 
fiscal year then ended financial statements of the Fund audited by the accountants, including the portfolio valuation 
as of that date.  The Fund will use commercially reasonable efforts to send such annual audited financial statements 
within 180 calendar days after the end of the Fund’s fiscal year, or as soon thereafter as practicable.  As soon as 
practicable after the end of the Fund’s fiscal year (commencing with the first fiscal year during which the Fund 
makes an investment), the General Partner will also send to each Person who was a Limited Partner at the end of 
such fiscal year a report of the investment activities of the Fund during that year.  Each Limited Partner 
acknowledges that the General Partner’s ability to provide Limited Partners with financial reports on the Fund 
depends, in part, on the information the General Partner and the Investment Manager receive (directly or indirectly) 
from the Underlying Funds, when the General Partner or the Investment Manager receives such information and 
whether the Underlying Funds agree to permit the Fund to provide such information to Limited Partners.
(c)
Notwithstanding clause (b) and anything else herein to the contrary, if a Limited Partner 
leaves Goldman Sachs (or, in the case of an Affiliated Investor Entity, the related Eligible Investor leaves Goldman 
Sachs), then the General Partner may, in its sole discretion, withhold from that Limited Partner some of the 
information Limited Partners are otherwise entitled to receive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
10.5.
Tax Matters and Elections.
(a)
The General Partner, or such eligible person as the General Partner may designate, shall 
be designated as the “partnership representative” of the Fund within the meaning of Section 6223 of the Code and 
under any similar provision of state, local or non-U.S. tax law.  The Fund shall be entitled to appoint a “designated 
individual” to the extent required or allowed by Treasury Regulations or other official guidance promulgated under 
or with respect to Subchapter C of Chapter 63 of the Code and under any similar provision of state, local or non-U.S. 
tax law (such partnership representative or designated individual, as applicable, the “Partnership Representative”).  
The Partnership Representative is specifically directed and authorized to take whatever steps the Partnership 
Representative deems necessary or desirable to perfect any such designation, including filing any forms or 
documents with the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and taking such other action as may from time to time be 
required under Treasury Regulations.  Each Limited Partner does hereby agree that, to the extent permitted by law, 
(i) the Partnership Representative will have the right to control all administrative and judicial proceedings in respect 
of tax matters of the Fund, and (ii) the Limited Partners will be bound by the outcome of final administrative 
adjustments resulting from an audit, as well as by the outcome of judicial review of adjustments.  Each Limited 
Partner further agrees, to the extent permitted by law, to file all tax returns that the Limited Partner is required to file 
in a manner consistent with the Fund’s tax returns and to waive his, her or its rights to participate in any 
administrative or judicial proceedings with respect to the determination or allocation of the Fund’s taxable income.  
41
Each Limited Partner does hereby agree that any action taken by the General Partner in connection with audits of the 
Fund under applicable tax law will be binding upon such Limited Partner.
(b)
The General Partner or the Partnership Representative may, in its discretion, cause the 
Fund to make or refrain from making all elections required or permitted to be made by the Fund under applicable tax 
law, including but not limited to an election to treat the Fund as an Electing Investment Partnership as defined in 
Section 743(e)(5) of the Code and an election under Section 754 of the Code.  The General Partner does not expect 
that the Fund will make an election under Section 754 of the Code.  If the General Partner makes an election under 
Section 754 of the Code and it is required to adjust the tax basis of the Fund’s assets as a result thereof, or is 
otherwise required to adjust the tax basis of the Fund’s assets under Section 734 or 743 of the Code, the General 
Partner shall endeavor to make such adjustments in good faith.
(c)
The General Partner is hereby authorized and empowered to prepare or have prepared, to 
execute or have executed and to file, on behalf of and in the name of the Fund, any returns, applications, agreements, 
elections and other instruments or documents, under applicable tax law, which it deems desirable or advisable.
(d)
If the Fund receives a notice of final partnership adjustment from the IRS, the Partnership 
Representative may, as determined in its good faith discretion and with respect to any applicable year, cause the 
Fund to (x) elect the application of Section 6226 of the Code with respect to any imputed underpayment arising from 
such adjustment, and (y) furnish to each Limited Partner (or former Limited Partner, as applicable) a statement of 
such Limited Partner’s (or former Limited Partner’s) share of any adjustment to income, gain, loss, deduction or 
credit (as determined in the notice of final partnership adjustment).
(e)
Each Limited Partner further agrees that such Limited Partner will, upon request by the 
General Partner or the Partnership Representative, execute any forms or documents (including a power of attorney 
or settlement or closing agreement), provide any information and take any further action requested by the General 
Partner or the Partnership Representative, and that the General Partner or the Partnership Representative may 
execute any forms or documents or obtain any information on such Limited Partner’s behalf that relate to such 
Limited Partner’s investment in the Fund, in connection with any tax matter (including in connection with a tax 
audit or proceeding) affecting the Fund, including as reasonably necessary to effectuate any of the foregoing 
provisions of this Section 10.5, including with respect to any forms, documents or information reasonably necessary 
for the Fund to comply with FATCA or avoid being subject to withholding tax under FATCA.
(f)
If a Limited Partner fails to comply with its obligations under this Section 10.5 or as 
required under the withholding rules related to transfers of Interests by non-U.S. persons and such failure results in 
any taxes, penalties, interest and/or any related costs or expenses (a “Tax Cost”), the General Partner shall, to the 
extent commercially practicable, cause such Limited Partner to bear the economic burden of such Tax Cost by 
specially allocating the Tax Cost to such Limited Partner and/or withholding the Tax Cost from proceeds otherwise 
distributable to such Limited Partner.  In the event that the General Partner does not withhold such amounts, the 
General Partner may require the Limited Partner to reimburse the Fund or the General Partner, as applicable, for any 
such Tax Costs.  In addition, the General Partner shall have full authority to take any steps that the General Partner 
reasonably determines are necessary or appropriate to mitigate the consequences to the Fund, any entity in which the 
Fund holds an equity or debt interest and/or any other Limited Partner of such Limited Partner’s failure to comply 
with its obligations under this Section 10.5.  Moreover, any Limited Partner that fails to comply with this Section 
10.5 shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exculpate the General Partner, the Fund and its affiliates, including 
any member of the Fund’s “expanded affiliated group” within the meaning of Section 1471(e)(2) of the Code, for 
any liabilities related to such failure and indemnify the General Partner, the Fund, and any such affiliates.
(g)
Each Limited Partner acknowledges and agrees that:
(i)
the Fund is required to comply with the provisions of FATCA;
42
(ii)
it will provide, in a timely manner, such information regarding the Limited 
Partner and its beneficial owners and such forms or documentation as may be requested from time 
to time by the Fund (whether by its General Partner or other agents to enable the Fund to comply 
with the requirements and obligations imposed on it pursuant to FATCA);
(iii)
any such forms or documentation requested by the Fund or its agents pursuant to 
paragraph (ii), or any financial or account information with respect to the Limited Partner’s 
investment in the Fund, may be disclosed to the applicable tax authorities and to any withholding 
agent where the provision of that information is required by such agent to avoid the application of 
any withholding tax on any payments to the Fund;
(iv)
it waives, and/or shall cooperate with the Fund to obtain a waiver of, the 
provisions of any law which;
(A)
prohibit the disclosure by the Fund, or by any of its agents, of the 
information or documentation requested from the Limited Partner 
pursuant to paragraph (ii); or
(B)
prohibit the reporting of financial or account information by the Fund 
or its agents required pursuant to FATCA; or
(C)
otherwise prevent compliance by the Fund with its obligations under 
FATCA;
(v)
if it provides information and documentation that is in anyway misleading, or it 
fails to provide the Fund or its agents with the requested information and documentation necessary 
in either case to satisfy the Fund’s obligations under FATCA, the General Partner reserves the 
right (whether or not such action or inaction leads to compliance failures by the Fund, or a risk of 
the Fund or its investors being subject to withholding tax or other costs, debts, expenses, 
obligations or liabilities (whether external, or internal, to the Fund) (together, “costs”) under 
FATCA), in its sole discretion, to take any action and/or pursue all remedies at its disposal 
including:
(A)
to establish separate sub-accounts within a Limited Partner’s capital 
account for the purpose of calculating FATCA-related costs; and/or
(B)
to allocate any or all FATCA-related costs among capital accounts (or 
sub-accounts within a Limited Partner’s capital account) on a basis 
determined solely by the General Partner; and/or
(C)
to compulsory withdraw such Limited Partner from the Fund; and/or
(D)
to hold back or deduct from any withdrawal proceeds or from any other 
payments or distributions due to such Limited Partner any costs caused 
(directly or indirectly) by the Limited Partner’s action or inaction;
(vi)
it shall have no claim against the Fund, the General Partner or any of its or their 
agents, for any form of damages or liability as a result of actions taken or remedies pursued by or 
on behalf of the Fund in order to comply with FATCA; and
43
(vii)
it hereby indemnifies the Fund, the General Partner, the Partnership 
Representative and each of their respective principals, members, partners, managers, officers, 
directors, stockholders, employees and agents and holds them harmless from and against any 
FATCA-related liability, action, proceeding, claim, demand, costs, damages, expenses (including 
legal expenses), penalties or taxes whatsoever which such parties may incur as a result of any 
action or inaction (directly or indirectly) of such Limited Partner (or any related person) described 
in the preceding paragraphs.  This indemnification shall survive such Limited Partner’s ceasing to 
be a Limited Partner of the Fund and/or the termination, dissolution, liquidation and winding up of 
the Fund.
(h)
By executing this Agreement, each Limited Partner authorizes and directs the Fund to 
elect to have the “Safe Harbor” described in the proposed Revenue Procedure set forth in IRS Notice 2005-43 (the 
“Notice”) apply to any interest in the Fund transferred to a service provider by the Fund on or after the effective date 
of such Revenue Procedure in connection with services provided to or for the benefit of the Fund.  For purposes of 
making such Safe Harbor election, the General Partner is hereby designated as the “partner who has responsibility 
for federal income tax reporting” by the Fund and, accordingly, execution of such Safe Harbor election by the 
General Partner constitutes execution of a “Safe Harbor Election” in accordance with Section 3.03(1) of the Notice.  
The Fund and each Limited Partner hereby agree (i) to use commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all 
requirements of the Safe Harbor described in the Notice, and (ii) that each Limited Partner shall prepare and file all 
U.S. federal income tax returns reporting the income tax effects of each Interest issued by the Fund that is subject to 
the Safe Harbor in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Notice.  Each Limited Partner authorizes the 
General Partner to amend this subsection to the extent reasonably necessary to achieve substantially the same tax 
treatment with respect to any Interest transferred to a service provider by the Fund in connection with services 
provided to the Fund as set forth in Section 4 of the Notice (e.g., to reflect changes from the rules set forth in the 
Notice in subsequent IRS guidance); provided that such amendment is not materially adverse to such Limited 
Partner (as compared with the after-tax consequences that would result if the provisions of the Notice applied to all 
interests in the Fund transferred to a service provider by the Fund in connection with services provided to the Fund).
(i)
A Limited Partner’s obligation to comply with the requirements of this Section 10.5 shall 
survive such Limited Partner’s ceasing to be a Limited Partner of the Fund and/or the termination, dissolution, 
liquidation and winding up of the Fund, and, for purposes of this Section 10.5, the Fund shall be treated as 
continuing in existence.
Article XI
Miscellaneous Provisions
11.1.
Appointment of the General Partner as Attorney-in-Fact.
(a)
Each Limited Partner, by such Limited Partner’s execution hereof (which execution may 
be on such Limited Partner’s behalf pursuant to a power of attorney or other authority contained in a subscription 
agreement for Interests), hereby irrevocably makes, constitutes and appoints the General Partner (including any 
successor General Partner), acting by any of its officers or designees, such Limited Partner’s true and lawful agent 
and attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution and full power and authority in such Limited Partner’s name, 
place and stead to make, complete, change, correct, execute, sign, acknowledge, swear to, deliver, record and file, on 
behalf of such Limited Partner and on behalf of the Fund, such documents, instruments and conveyances that may be 
necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions or purposes of this Agreement, including:
(i)
instruments or agreements required or permitted by law or the provisions of this 
Agreement including those to effect the admission to or withdrawal from the Fund of Partners and 
substituted Partners, and all instruments that the General Partner deems necessary or appropriate to reflect a 
change, modification or novation of this Agreement, in accordance with this Agreement;
44
(ii)
all certificates and other instruments deemed necessary or advisable by the 
General Partner to carry out the provisions of this Agreement including such certificates, agreements and 
other documents as may be necessary (A) to organize, invest in and conduct business through one or more 
Investment Vehicles, (B) to permit the Fund to become or to continue as a limited partnership or a company 
wherein the limited partners have limited liability in the jurisdictions where the Fund may be doing 
business, or (C) in the event that Goldman Sachs makes a loan to or guarantees any debt of, the Fund, or in 
the event that Goldman Sachs or any third party makes a loan to, or guarantees any debt of, any financing 
vehicle, to permit the Fund and/or the General Partner to pledge, charge or assign, or otherwise make 
available as credit support for any such loan or guarantee, assets of the Fund, the capital commitments of 
the Partners, or both;
(iii)
all conveyances and other instruments or papers deemed advisable by the 
General Partner to effect the winding-up and dissolution of the Fund;
(iv)
all fictitious or assumed name certificates required or permitted to be filed on 
behalf of the Fund;
(v)
any and all documentation necessary to pledge, assign or otherwise transfer or 
encumber Fund assets, including the right to make and collect capital contributions;
(vi)
any and all documentation necessary to permit the Fund or the General Partner 
or its respective designee to redeem, purchase, sell, Transfer, convey and assign, including as contemplated 
by Sections 6.1, 8.7 or 8.9, the Interest (or any portion thereof) of any Limited Partner to any Transferee, 
including the Fund, the General Partner or Goldman Sachs; and
(vii)
all other instruments or papers which may be required or permitted by law to be 
filed on behalf of the Fund, or which the General Partner considers necessary or desirable to carry out the 
business of the Fund.
(b)
The foregoing power of attorney:
(i)
is coupled with an interest, shall be irrevocable, shall not be affected by and 
shall survive the death, incapacity, dissolution, termination or bankruptcy of the Limited Partner;
(ii)
may be exercised by the General Partner without notice to or any additional 
action on the part of any Limited Partner, either by signing separately as attorney-in-fact for each Limited 
Partner or, after listing all of the Limited Partners executing an instrument, by a single signature of the 
General Partner acting as attorney-in-fact for all of them; and
(iii)
shall survive the Transfer by a Limited Partner of the whole or any portion of 
such Limited Partner’s Interest; except that, where the Transferee of the whole of such Limited Partner’s 
Interest has been approved by the General Partner for admission to the Fund as a substituted Limited 
Partner, the power of attorney of the transferor Limited Partner shall survive the delivery of such Transfer 
for the sole purpose of enabling the General Partner to execute, swear to, acknowledge and file any 
instrument necessary or appropriate to effect such substitution.
11.2.
Amendments to this Agreement.
(a)
Except as expressly provided herein, in order to effect an amendment to this Agreement, 
the General Partner must propose such amendment by submitting (i) the text of such amendment and (ii) a statement 
of the purpose of such amendment to all Limited Partners.  The proposed amendment shall be deemed adopted thirty 
(30) calendar days after the General Partner submits such notice, unless either the majority of materially adversely 
affected SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partners or two-thirds in interest of the Limited Partners (including any 
Institutional Limited Partners but excluding any Participating Interests beneficially owned by Goldman Sachs) have, 
45
by the end of such notice period, delivered its or their written objection to the proposed amendment to the General 
Partner.
(b)
No amendment may:
(i)
disproportionately increase a Limited Partner’s liability or obligations or 
disproportionately reduce its rights to distributions without the consent of the disproportionately affected 
Limited Partner;
(ii)
amend Section 5.5 or this Section 11.2 without the consent of all the Partners 
(except that Section 5.5 may be amended as provided in Section 11.2(d)(v)-(vi)); or
(iii)
modify the method provided in Article VI of determining and allocating or 
distributing, as the case may be, items of income, gain, loss, and deduction and other tax items without the 
consent of the General Partner and three-quarters in interest of the Limited Partners adversely affected by 
such modification.
(c)
Upon the adoption of any amendment to this Agreement, the amended Agreement or 
instrument incorporating by reference the terms thereof shall be executed by the General Partner for itself and on 
behalf of the Limited Partners and, if such amendment requires any filing with respect to the Fund under the 
Delaware Act or any other filing made in any other state, the General Partner, pursuant to the power of attorney 
granted in Section 11.1 shall execute and file proper amendments and filings in each jurisdiction in which such 
action is necessary for the Fund to conduct business or to preserve the limited liability of the Limited Partners.
(d)
Notwithstanding Section 11.2(a) or anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the 
General Partner may amend this Agreement without the consent of the Limited Partners for any of the following 
purposes:
(i)
amendments reflecting admissions or withdrawals of Limited Partners, 
substitution of Limited Partners or conversions, purchases or forfeitures of Participating Interests;
(ii)
amendments with regard to any additional series or classes of Interests issued to 
Limited Partners, to the extent such amendment does not materially affect the economic rights of the other 
Limited Partners;
(iii)
technical and clarifying amendments that are not materially adverse to the 
Limited Partners, provided that the General Partner provides prompt notice of any such amendment to the 
Limited Partners;
(iv)
amendments necessary to comply with SOX as it may be interpreted from time 
to time, including amendments to modify the Interest held by any Limited Partner who becomes a SOX 
Insider during the term of the Fund, provided that the amendments are not adverse to the interests of the 
Limited Partners who are not SOX Insiders;
(v)
amendments that make any change (including the removal of any or all 
restrictions imposed by the terms of this Agreement that were designed to ensure compliance with the 
Application or any order approving the Application) that the General Partner in its discretion determines is 
necessary or advisable, to comply with (or reduce the burdens of complying with) the BHCA, the Dodd-
Frank Act, including the Volcker Rule, or any other current or future laws, rules, regulations or legal 
requirements applicable to Goldman Sachs or one or more of the Funds or to reduce, eliminate or otherwise 
modify the impact, or applicability to, Goldman Sachs or any of its affiliates, or any vehicle organized, 
offered and/or managed by Goldman Sachs (including the Funds) of any bank regulatory or other 
regulatory restrictions that might otherwise be imposed upon or affect any such Person or any Limited 
Partner as a result of Goldman Sachs’ status as a bank holding company or a financial holding company 
46
under the BHCA, as an entity otherwise subject to the Dodd-Frank Act (including the Volcker Rule), in 
each case, including amendments in connection with (A) changes to the structure, ownership or 
management of the General Partner, or the reorganization or restructuring of the Fund; (B) the liquidation, 
reorganization, or other modifications to, or restructuring of any of the Funds; (C) distributions in kind of 
non-marketable securities and/or forced sales of interests by some or all of the Limited Partners (for notes 
or other consideration); and (D) the resignation of Goldman Sachs as the Investment Manager and/or a 
change in the General Partner effected in accordance with this Agreement;
(vi)
amendments that make any necessary or advisable change, that the General 
Partner in its discretion determines is necessary or advisable, in connection with any replacement of the 
Investment Manager, or any assignment or Transfer by the General Partner or the Investment Manager (as 
permitted by applicable law and/or the Application (or any order approving the Application)) of any of its 
rights or obligations (or by the General Partner of its interests in the Fund) or any redemption, assignment 
or Transfer of interests Goldman Sachs may hold in one or more of the Funds, in each case to the extent 
such redemption, assignment or Transfer is deemed necessary or advisable to comply with (or reduce the 
burdens of complying with) the BHCA, the Dodd-Frank Act (including the Volcker Rule) or any other 
applicable statute;
(vii)
amendments to cause the Fund to automatically wind-up and dissolve no later 
than the date that is 15 years from the date of formation, unless the Fund is terminated earlier pursuant to 
this Agreement;
(viii)
amendments to correct any inconsistency with the Offering Memorandum;
(ix)
amendments to otherwise facilitate the General Partner’s ability to carry out its 
powers;
(x)
amendments the General Partner deems necessary or advisable to comply with 
the Application (or any order approving the Application);
(xi)
amendments to make any change in any provision of this Agreement that 
requires any action to be taken by or on behalf of the General Partner or the Fund pursuant to the 
requirements of applicable Delaware law if the provisions of applicable Delaware law are amended, 
modified or revoked so that the taking of such action is no longer required;
(xii)
amendments to address the application to the Fund of the European Union 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (the “AIFM Directive”), the UK Alternative Investment 
Fund Managers Regulations (the “AIFM Regulations”) and any laws, regulations and administrative 
provisions that are adopted by member states of the EEA and/or the UK in compliance with the AIFM 
Directive, the AIFM Regulations or any similar laws, regulations or administrative provisions relating to 
the regulation of alternative investment funds or their managers;
(xiii)
amendments that are necessary or advisable, in the opinion of the General 
Partner (including upon the advice or recommendation of the Investment Manager), to qualify the Fund or, 
if established, any Series, as an entity in which the Limited Partners have limited liability under the laws of 
any state or other jurisdiction, or to ensure that the Fund will not be treated for U.S. federal income tax 
purposes as an association taxable as a corporation;
(xiv)
if during the term of the Fund (including any extensions thereof), in the 
discretion of the General Partner, there is a material change in law that affects the U.S. federal income tax 
treatment of [           ] the Carried Interest, amendments to restructure the Fund or the Offshore Funds and/
or restructure the method by which [           ] the Carried Interest is allocated, distributed or otherwise paid, 
or make any other changes to this Agreement or any other relevant agreements in connection therewith, in a 
47
manner intended to reduce or eliminate any adverse impact of any such change in law while preserving the 
intended economic arrangement [           ], as reasonably determined by the General Partner [           ];
(xv)
amendments the General Partner determines in its sole discretion to be necessary 
or advisable in order to address any changes in tax law or interpretations thereof applicable to the Funds or 
Goldman Sachs, including a change in law or interpretations that affects the U.S. federal income tax 
treatment of some or all of the income allocations or distributions by the Funds, including any necessary or 
advisable changes, in the opinion of the General Partner, in order to restructure the Fund or the Offshore 
Funds and/or the way in which amounts are allocated, distributed or otherwise paid, changes to the relevant 
agreements in connection therewith, subdividing or combining one or more classes of interests in the Fund 
or converting one or more classes of interests in the Fund to one or more Series of Fund interests (including 
any segregation of assets and liabilities in connection therewith), each of which will be treated as a separate 
entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
(xvi)
amendments the General Partner determines in its sole discretion to be necessary 
or advisable to change the domicile of, or otherwise continue, the Fund, the General Partner or any other 
Fund entity to another jurisdiction to address legal, regulatory or tax concerns applicable to the Fund, its 
investments or Limited Partners;
(xvii)
amendments that do not, as reasonably determined by the General Partner, 
adversely affect the Limited Partners considered as a whole in any material respect;
(xviii)
amendments to prevent the assets of the Fund and/or a Subsidiary from being 
treated as “plan assets” that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (as the 
same can be amended from time to time) (“ERISA”) or Section 4975 of the Code (or a comparable law or 
regulation);
(xix)
if the Application is withdrawn without the SEC issuing an order approving the 
Application, amendments to ensure that the Fund complies with the order of the SEC dated August 14, 
1998 (Release No. IC 23390);
(xx)
amendments that are substantially similar to any amendments made to the 
governing documents of one or more of the Underlying Funds (whether or not approved by the investors in 
such funds); and
(xxi)
amendments necessary to make any other modification or amendments similar 
to the foregoing
provided that, in the event that this Agreement is amended pursuant to clause (iii), the General Partner shall 
promptly provide notice of such amendment to the Limited Partners.
(e)
In the event that an Institutional Limited Partner, in connection with a vote or consent 
solicitation with respect to its Interest, informs the General Partner of the results of a poll of the Indirect Investors 
with respect to such Interest, the General Partner shall permit such Institutional Limited Partner to vote or consent 
with respect to its Interest in accordance with results of such poll.
11.3.
Arbitration.  Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or in connection with or relating to 
this Agreement or any breach or alleged breach hereof shall (to the extent not prohibited by governing law) be 
determined and settled by arbitration in the City of New York pursuant to the rules then in effect of the American 
Arbitration Association.  Any award rendered shall be final and conclusive upon the parties and a judgment thereon 
may be entered in the highest court of the forum, state or federal, having jurisdiction.
11.4.
Notices.  Any notice to the Fund or the General Partner shall be sent to the principal office of the 
Fund to the attention of the General Counsel, and any notice to a Limited Partner shall be sent to such Limited 
48
Partner’s business or residence address, as set forth on the list, as amended from time to time, maintained by the 
General Partner as provided in Section 3.3.
11.5.
Binding Provisions.  The covenants and agreements contained herein shall be binding upon and 
inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the respective parties hereto.
11.6.
Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of 
the State of Delaware.  If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that any provision of this Agreement 
is invalid under applicable law, such provision will be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, 
without invalidating the remainder of this Agreement.
11.7.
Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, all of which together shall 
constitute one agreement binding on all parties hereto, notwithstanding that not all the parties have signed the same 
counterpart, except that no counterpart shall be binding unless signed by the General Partner.  The General Partner 
may execute any document by facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer.
11.8.
Severability of Provisions.  If for any reason any provision or provisions hereof that are not 
material to the purposes or business of the Fund or the Limited Partners’ Interests are determined to be invalid and 
contrary to any existing or future law, such invalidity shall not impair the operation of or affect those portions of this 
Agreement that are valid.
11.9.
Interpretation.  For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein:
(a)
the words “including”, “includes”, “include”, and other words of similar import shall be 
deemed to be followed by the phrase “without limitation”;
(b)
references to a Limited Partner’s subscription agreement shall be deemed to include all of 
a Limited Partner’s subscription materials, including his, her or its subscriber signature page, consent and power of 
attorney into which the Limited Partner’s subscription agreement is incorporated; and
(c)
in any case where Goldman Sachs, the Investment Manager or the General Partner is 
authorized or required to take or omit an action, make any decision, determination, valuation, or grant or withhold 
any approval, consent or waiver,
(i)
it may do so (or not do so) in its sole and absolute discretion or judgment;
(ii)
it shall be entitled to (but not required to) take into account any considerations, 
interests or factors it deems appropriate or desirable, including its own interests and interests of affiliates;
(iii)
such action (or inaction), decision, determination, approval, valuation, or grant 
or withholding of consent shall be final, binding and conclusive as to the Fund, the Limited Partners and 
their respective successors, assigns or personal representatives; and
(iv)
when so doing, it shall not be subject to any duties or standards (including 
fiduciary or similar duties or standards) existing under the Delaware Act or other Delaware law (or in 
equity).
It is intended that the terms of this Agreement be construed in accordance with their fair meanings and not 
against any particular Person, including the General Partner.
11.10.
Entire Agreement.  This Agreement and the subscription agreements for the Interests constitute the 
entire agreement among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof.  Except for the subscription agreements, this 
Agreement supersedes any prior agreement or understanding among the parties and may not be modified or 
amended in any manner other than as set forth herein.
11.11.
Headings.  The headings in this Agreement are for descriptive purposes only and shall not control 
or alter the meaning of this Agreement as set forth in the text.
49
11.12.
Further Assurances.  Each Limited Partner (including each SOX Insider Preferred Limited Partner) 
shall do and perform or cause to be done and performed all further acts and things and shall execute and deliver all 
other agreements, certificates, instruments and documents as the General Partner reasonably may request in order to 
carry out the intent and accomplish the purposes of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions 
contemplated hereby.
11.13.
Effectiveness.  This Agreement shall become effective as of the day and year first above written 
upon execution hereof by the General Partner and the Initial Limited Partner and, as to each additional Limited 
Partner, when the subscription hereto by such party has been accepted by the General Partner.
11.14.
FCC Representations and Covenants.  Each Limited Partner hereby acknowledges, covenants and 
agrees that it will not be materially involved, directly or indirectly, in the management or operation of the media- or 
carrier-related activity of the Fund or any Portfolio Company that, directly or indirectly, owns, controls or operates a 
broadcast station, cable television system, a wireless or wireline telecommunications business, daily newspaper, any 
other communications facility or any other activity regulated by, or otherwise subject to ownership restrictions 
imposed by, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) (including restrictions imposed by Section 
310(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”)) (a “Media Company”) and 
that neither it nor any of its directors, officers, partners, members or greater-than-five-percent (5%) voting or equity 
holders will:
(a)
act as an employee of the Fund or any Media Company (directly or through the officers, 
directors, partners, members or affiliates of such Limited Partner) if such Limited Partner’s functions (or those of its 
officers, directors, partners, members or affiliates), directly or indirectly, relate to the media or carrier enterprises of 
the Fund or any Media Company;
(b)
serve, in any material capacity, as an independent contractor or agent with respect to the 
media or carrier enterprises of the Fund or any Media Company;
(c)
communicate with the Fund, the management of any Media Company or with the General 
Partner on matters pertaining to the day-to-day operations of any Media Company or the Fund;
(d)
vote to admit any additional or replacement General Partner to the Fund unless such 
additional or replacement General Partner has been approved by the General Partner(s) then existing;
(e)
perform any services for the Fund or any Media Company materially relating to its media 
or carrier activities; or
(f)
become actively involved in the management or operation of any Media Company or the 
media or carrier businesses of the Fund.
Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, a Limited Partner may with the consent of the General 
Partner, have or establish a direct relationship with, or obtain an interest in, a Media Company other than through, 
by or on behalf of the Fund which would otherwise be proscribed by Sections 11.14(b), 11.14(c) and 11.14(f); 
provided that such Limited Partner acknowledges that it may be deemed thereby to have an attributable interest in 
such Media Company as provided in the rules, regulations and policies of the FCC as a result of such interest or 
relationship; and provided further that such Limited Partner agrees that it shall (i) be responsible for ensuring its own 
compliance with the Communications Act, and all applicable rules, regulations and policies of the FCC (the “FCC 
Rules”); (ii) provide the General Partner with such information reasonably requested by the General Partner to 
ensure that the Fund and any Media Company remain in compliance with the Communications Act and the FCC 
Rules; and (iii) take any and all action necessary or reasonably requested by the General Partner, including divesting 
or transferring its interest in the Fund to ensure that the Fund and any Media Company (x) remain in compliance 
with the Communications Act and the FCC Rules, or (y) are not precluded from holding or acquiring an interest in 
any other business.
50
The foregoing provisions of this Section 11.14 are designed to ensure, to the extent possible, that 
the Limited Partners will not be deemed to hold an attributable interest in a Media Company.  Accordingly, such 
provisions shall be read to preclude the Limited Partners from engaging in any activity which is inconsistent with the 
insulation criteria of the FCC, as such may be amended, modified or clarified from time to time and the General 
Partner is authorized to amend the provisions of this Section 11.14 as may be deemed necessary to ensure that this 
Agreement insulates the Limited Partners from attribution pursuant to the FCC Rules and for purposes of the foreign 
ownership restrictions set forth in Section 310(b) of the Communications Act.  Limited Partners, however, are not 
precluded by this Section 11.14 from engaging in any activity which the FCC would deem consistent with its 
insulation criteria and the non-attributable status of such Limited Partner.
11.15.
Compliance with Applicable Law.  Without limitation of any of the General Partner’s rights and/or 
authorities herein, the General Partner, in its sole discretion and without the consent of any Limited Partner, may 
take any action, including (a) liquidating or reorganizing the Fund or taking other conforming steps or (b) otherwise 
modifying, amending or restructuring the Fund, in each case, without regard to any applicable tax consequences, and 
as the General Partner or Goldman Sachs in its discretion determines is necessary or advisable for Goldman Sachs or 
any of its affiliates to comply with the Application, any order approving the Application, applicable laws, rules or 
regulations (including the BHCA and/or the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Volcker Rule) affecting the Fund, the 
Limited Partners, Goldman Sachs or any of its affiliates.  By exercising any of its rights, or taking any of the actions 
described in this Section 11.15, the General Partner may cause distributions in kind of non-marketable securities, 
forced sales of Interests by some or all Limited Partners (for notes or other consideration), or resignation of 
Goldman Sachs as the Investment Manager and/or the General Partner.  Furthermore, the General Partner may 
exercise any such rights or authorized actions in its sole discretion and with respect to certain or all Limited Partners 
in a manner that may disproportionately affect some Limited Partners relative to other Limited Partners (even 
similarly situated Limited Partners) and the General Partner will have no duty (implied or otherwise) to mitigate the 
effect on any Limited Partners or to treat any similarly situated Limited Partners similarly.
11.16.
Confidentiality.
(a)
Subject to the exception in the fourth sentence of this Section 11.16(a), each Limited 
Partner agrees to keep confidential all communications between the General Partner and/or the Investment Manager 
and/or any of their respective affiliates, on the one hand, and such Limited Partner, on the other hand, and any other 
information regarding the other Limited Partners, the Fund, any existing, past or prospective Fund Investment 
(including any Subsidiary, Investment Vehicle or Alternative Investment Vehicle), Underlying Fund or Portfolio 
Company or the affairs of the Fund generally which such Limited Partner may obtain or have access to by reason of 
being a Limited Partner, including (i) any information regarding any other Limited Partner (including the identity of 
such Limited Partner); (ii) any information, financial or otherwise, regarding the Fund, including quarterly and 
annual reports, financial results, market projections and other information provided to the Limited Partners as part of 
the Fund’s ongoing reporting obligations and investor communications; and (iii) any information, financial or 
otherwise, regarding any existing, past or prospective Fund Investment or Portfolio Company (all such 
communications and any such information whether obtained from the Fund, the General Partner or any other source, 
collectively, the “Confidential Information”).  Each Limited Partner acknowledges and agrees that the Confidential 
Information shall be deemed non-public, confidential and proprietary in nature and shall constitute trade secrets 
under applicable law with respect to the Fund and its investments, the disclosure of which could have adverse effects 
on the Fund.  No Limited Partner will seek to obtain, either lawfully or unlawfully, the identity of any other Limited 
Partner or any information regarding any other Limited Partner, whether or not such information is available 
generally to Persons who are Limited Partners.  Without the prior written consent of the General Partner (which may 
be withheld in the discretion of the General Partner), each Limited Partner agrees that he, she or it shall (x) maintain 
in strict confidence and not disclose any Confidential Information to any Person who is not an officer, employee, 
accountant, consultant, attorney, portfolio administrator, tax advisor or any other advisor who is involved in such 
Limited Partner’s investments, except to the extent such information is required by applicable law to be reflected in 
such Limited Partner’s tax filings, and (y) not use Confidential Information for any purpose, including contacting 
other Limited Partners, other than the preparation of such Limited Partner’s tax returns and evaluation of the 
performance of such Limited Partner’s investment in the Fund.  Each Limited Partner shall first advise any such 
officer, employee, accountant, consultant, attorney, portfolio administrator, tax advisor or other advisor involved in 
such Limited Partner’s investments of the confidential nature of such information and such Limited Partner’s 
51
obligations with respect to the Confidential Information prior to the disclosure of any such information.  Without 
limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Limited Partner agrees that it shall not use Confidential Information in 
contravention of applicable securities laws, including in respect of any direct or indirect purchase or sale of any 
publicly-traded securities (or derivatives thereof) while in possession of material non-public information.  Each 
Limited Partner further agrees that the General Partner may refuse a Limited Partner’s request to furnish any 
correspondence, documents or other Confidential Information to any Person who is not an officer, employee, 
accountant, consultant, attorney, portfolio administrator, tax advisor or any other advisor who is involved in such 
Limited Partner’s investments.  In the event disclosure of any such information is permitted by the General Partner 
or the exceptions set forth above, such Limited Partner is responsible for the compliance by any such recipient with 
the foregoing restrictions.  Each Limited Partner acknowledges and agrees that monetary damages would not be a 
sufficient remedy for any breach of this Section 11.16 by a Limited Partner or its representatives and that in addition 
to any other remedies available to the Fund in respect of any such breach, the Fund shall be entitled to specific 
performance and injunctive or other equitable relief as a remedy for any such breach, without the obligation of 
posting a bond or other security.
(b)
Each Limited Partner acknowledges that the other Limited Partners are relying on such 
Limited Partner to maintain the confidentiality of any information relating to such other Limited Partners, the Fund, 
any existing, past or prospective Fund Investment or Portfolio Company, the affairs of the Fund generally and any 
other Confidential Information.  Accordingly, the Limited Partners hereby acknowledge and agree that to the fullest 
extent permitted by Section 17-305(a) of the Delaware Act, the rights of a Limited Partner to obtain information 
from the General Partner and the Fund shall be restricted to only those rights provided for in this Agreement, and 
that any other rights provided under Section 17-305(f) of the Delaware Act shall not be available to the Limited 
Partners or applicable to the Fund, except as otherwise provided by the General Partner.  The General Partner and 
the Fund may also keep confidential and not disclose to any or all Limited Partners any Confidential Information.  
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, any information to be provided or disclosed to a 
Limited Partner may be adjusted, such that the data that identifies any other Limited Partner and any existing, past or 
prospective Fund Investment or Portfolio Company is not disclosed to the Limited Partner.  Each Limited Partner 
acknowledges and agrees that the Confidential Information shall be deemed non-public, confidential and proprietary 
in nature and shall constitute trade secrets under applicable law with respect to the Fund and its Fund Investments, 
the disclosure of which could have adverse effects on the Fund, the General Partner, the Investment Manager, Fund 
Investments and Portfolio Companies and that the General Partner may withhold some or all information which 
would otherwise be provided to such Limited Partner under the terms of this Agreement and shall be entitled to 
terminate the Interest of any Limited Partner that discloses Confidential Information in a manner not expressly 
permitted in this Section 11.16.
(c)
[           ]
(d)
Each Limited Partner (x) acknowledges that the General Partner may release confidential 
information about such Limited Partner and, if applicable, any underlying beneficial owners of such Limited Partner 
(i) if the General Partner reasonably determines that such release is in the best interest of the Fund, including in light 
of applicable laws and regulations concerning money laundering and similar activities, (ii) if required by any law or 
regulation of any jurisdiction applicable to the Fund, (iii) in connection with any incurrence of any Financing, or 
(iv) in connection with preparing for or the making of any Fund Investment, and (y) agrees to provide the General 
Partner with any additional information that the General Partner deems necessary to ensure compliance with any 
laws or regulations applicable to the Fund or its business.
(e)
In the event a Limited Partner (or his, her or its representatives) is requested to disclose 
any Confidential Information (i) to any governmental regulatory body having jurisdiction over the Limited Partner, 
(ii) in response to any court order, subpoena, civil investigative demand or similar process or (iii) in connection with 
any disclosure obligation under any law or regulation of any jurisdiction applicable to the Limited Partner (including 
FOIA or any comparable law or regulation of any other jurisdiction (including any non-U.S. jurisdiction)), such 
Limited Partner shall provide written notice to the General Partner promptly after such request and prior to 
responding, unless such notice is prohibited by applicable law, so that the General Partner may seek a protective 
order or other appropriate remedy (and such Limited Partner agrees to cooperate with the General Partner in 
52
connection with seeking such order or other remedy).  In the event that such protective order or other remedy is not 
obtained, such Limited Partner agrees to furnish only that portion of the information that it determines, after 
consultation with counsel, is legally required, and to exercise best efforts to obtain assurance that confidential 
treatment will be accorded such information.  No such notice shall be required with respect to disclosure to a 
governmental regulatory body pursuant to periodic regular regulatory examinations.  In addition, upon receipt by the 
General Partner of written notice from any such Limited Partner of such public disclosure request, the General 
Partner (x) may facilitate the sale or Transfer or may purchase the interest of such Limited Partner or (y) may 
withhold some or all information which would otherwise be provided to such Limited Partner under the terms of this 
Agreement if, in the case of either clause (x) or clause (y), the General Partner reasonably determines that the 
disclosure of such information could adversely affect the Fund.
(f)
Each Limited Partner understands and acknowledges that the Fund, the General Partner 
and Goldman Sachs make no representation or warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of that portion of the 
Confidential Information provided to the Limited Partner which is provided to the Fund by any unaffiliated third 
party, including any Fund Investment or Portfolio Company (“Third Party Information”), and that to the extent the 
Fund provides any such Third Party Information to any Limited Partner, each Limited Partner acknowledges and 
agrees that such information is provided for informational purposes only.  The Fund, the General Partner and 
Goldman Sachs shall have no liability to any Limited Partner or any other Person resulting from reliance on or use 
of the Third Party Information.
(g)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, except as 
reasonably necessary to comply with applicable securities laws, each Limited Partner (and any employee, 
representative or other agent thereof) may disclose to any and all Persons the tax treatment and tax structure of, and 
all tax strategies relating to, the Fund, the Limited Partner’s ownership of an Interest in the Fund, and any Fund 
transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions and other tax analyses) that are provided to the Limited 
Partner relating to such tax treatment, tax structure and tax strategies.  For this purpose, “tax structure” means any 
facts relevant to the U.S. federal, state or local income tax treatment of the Fund, the Limited Partner’s ownership of 
an Interest in the Fund, and any Fund transaction, and does not include information relating to the identity of the 
Limited Partners, any Fund Investment, any Underlying Fund, any Portfolio Company or any of their respective 
affiliates.  Nothing in this Section 11.16 shall be deemed to require the General Partner to disclose to any Limited 
Partner any information that the General Partner is permitted or is required to keep confidential in accordance with 
this Agreement or otherwise.
11.17.
Advisory Committee Authorization.
(a)
Each Limited Partner hereby authorizes the General Partner, on behalf of such Limited 
Partner, to cause the formation of a committee (the “Advisory Committee”), the purpose of which will be to consider 
and, on behalf of the Limited Partners, approve or disapprove, to the extent determined by the General Partner to be 
required by applicable law (including the Advisers Act) or otherwise appropriate, principal transactions, certain 
other related party transactions, transactions involving a potential conflict of interest and such other matters as the 
General Partner shall determine appropriate and to select one or more Persons, who shall not be affiliated with the 
General Partner, to serve on the committee.  In no event shall any such transaction be entered into unless it complies 
with applicable law.  A consent by the Advisory Committee acting on behalf of the Limited Partners and/or the Fund 
with respect to any matter shall be deemed to constitute the consent of the Limited Partners and the Fund.  There 
may be a single Advisory Committee for all of the Funds, notwithstanding that such committee may not include (or 
may underrepresent) investors in any particular Fund.
(b)
Each Limited Partner further acknowledges that any investor advisory committee of the 
Underlying Funds (each, an “Investor Advisory Committee”) will consider matters similar to those described in 
clause (a) above as well as other matters in connection with such Underlying Funds.  The General Partner may 
delegate to an Investor Advisory Committee the authority to approve, on behalf of the Fund, any such matter that the 
General Partner determines in its discretion affects the applicable Underlying Fund and the Funds as a whole.  In 
such a case the consent of the Investor Advisory Committee with respect to such matter shall be deemed to 
53
constitute the consent of the Limited Partners and the Fund with respect to such matter (without, for the avoidance of 
doubt, any separate consent of the Advisory Committee).
(c)
No member of an Investor Advisory Committee or the Advisory Committee, if formed, 
shall be liable to any Partner or the Fund for any act or omission performed or omitted by him, her or it, as the case 
may be, arising out of such Person’s activities in connection with serving on an Investor Advisory Committee or the 
Advisory Committee (other than willful misfeasance, or bad faith on the part of such member) including for any 
mistake in judgment, any action or inaction taken or omitted to be taken, or for any loss due to any mistake, action 
or inaction arising out of such Person’s activities in connection with serving on an Investor Advisory Committee or 
the Advisory Committee.  The General Partner is authorized and empowered to cause the Fund to provide members 
of the Advisory Committee similar rights of reimbursement, advance, indemnity, contribution and other similar 
rights as are provided to Indemnified Persons above.
(d)
To the extent that an Investor Advisory Committee approves any matter (including any 
approval required by or appropriate (as determined by Goldman Sachs) in light of applicable law, including the 
Advisers Act, principal transactions, certain other related party transactions, transactions involving a potential 
conflict of interest and such other matters, in each case, that are presented to the Investor Advisory Committee) such 
matter will also be deemed approved by the Partners and the Fund.
11.18.
Interests Constitute Article 8 Securities.  The Fund and each Limited Partner expressly 
acknowledge and agree that (a) each Interest in the Fund is a security governed by Article 8 of the Uniform 
Commercial Code in effect in the state of Delaware (the “DEUCC”) and the Uniform Commercial Code of any other 
relevant jurisdiction and (b) this Agreement establishes the terms of the Interests in the Fund.  The “issuer’s 
jurisdiction” (within the meaning of Section 8-110 of the DEUCC) of the Fund shall be the State of Delaware.
[The remainder of this page intentionally left blank.]
54
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date 
first above written.
[   ],
as General Partner
By: 
Name:
Title:
[   ],
as Original General Partner
By: 
Name:
Title:
[   ], 
as Initial Limited Partner
By: 
Name:
Title:
LIMITED PARTNERS
Executed and delivered on behalf of all those Limited Partners whose names, residence or business address 
appear on the list of Limited Partners which is maintained by the General Partner as provided in Section 3.3, by [   ] 
pursuant to a duly granted power of attorney or other authority.
[   ], as Attorney-in-Fact for each Limited Partner
By: 
Name:
Title:
AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
EXHIBIT A
General Partner
Name: 
[   ]
Registered Office: 
[   ]
Business Address: 
[   ]
Capital Commitment 
[   ]
A-1
CERTAIN INFORMATION, IDENTIFIED BY AND REPLACED WITH A MARK OF “[   ],” HAS BEEN 
EXCLUDED FROM THIS DOCUMENT BECAUSE IT IS BOTH (I) NOT MATERIAL AND (II) THE TYPE THAT 
THE REGISTRANT TREATS AS PRIVATE OR CONFIDENTIAL.    
FORM OF SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT AND MATERIALS FOR 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE LONG TERM EXECUTIVE CARRIED INTEREST INCENTIVE PROGRAM
Exhibit 10.47
Individual and Entity
FORM OF SUBSCRIPTION MATERIALS FOR 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE LONG TERM EXECUTIVE CARRIED INTEREST INCENTIVE PROGRAM
[   ] (the “Fund”)
Class A Limited Partnership Interests1
Class O Limited Partnership Interests
[           ]
SUBSCRIBER SIGNATURE PAGE, CONSENT AND POWER OF ATTORNEY
I. PERSONAL INFORMATION
GS Offeree’s Name
________________________________________
Employee ID #
_________________
Office Location
________________________________________
These Subscription Agreement and Materials, including the supplement provided to you as Annex B 
(the “Supplement”), relate to the issuance of Class O Interests (as defined below) in [   ] (the “Fund”).  
All references herein to the “Partnership Agreement” shall refer to the agreement of limited partnership 
of the Fund, as amended or restated through the date hereof and (iii) the “Offering Memorandum” shall 
refer to the Offering Memorandum of the Fund, as supplemented or amended through the date hereof 
(other than by the Supplement) and (iv) the “Subscription Agreement” shall refer to the Subscription 
Agreement of the Fund provided to you as Annex A.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in these 
Subscription Materials have the same meaning set forth in the Partnership Agreement or the Offering 
Memorandum.
You may either invest directly in the Fund (in which case you are both the “Subscriber” and the “GS 
Offeree” for purposes of this agreement) or offer your investment opportunity to an entity that you 
control (in which case you are the “GS Offeree” and such entity is the “Subscriber” for purposes of 
this agreement).  Please enter the Subscriber name and check the appropriate box indicating the 
Subscriber for your investment opportunity and, if the Subscriber is an entity, complete the “Investor 
Certification – Entity” form:
Subscriber Name:  ___________________________________________________________
□ Self
□ Corporation □ Partnership □ LLC
□ Trust
Exhibit 10.47
1 Class A Limited Partnership Interests represent the required minimum equity capital commitment with respect to the Class O Limited Partnership Interests.  
I.
ACCEPTANCE OF CLASS O INTERESTS AND SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST
The minimum allowable equity capital commitment is detailed in the table below:
Fund
Minimum Equity Capital 
Commitment
[   ]
[   ]
ACCEPTANCE OF CLASS O INTERESTS
I irrevocably ACCEPT the opportunity to participate in the Fund with respect to the Class O Interests (“Class O 
Interests”) being offered to the GS Offeree, that will be granted as of [   ].  The Class O Interests offered to the 
GS Offeree have been communicated separately.
I acknowledge and affirm that my participation in this opportunity is subject to the acceptance of my request, in 
whole or in part, by the Fund.
Class O Interests are entitled to share in a portion of any Carried Interest that may be earned from the 
applicable external funds as described in the Offering Memorandum (including, as applicable, one or more of 
the External Funds, and any other funds, entities, separate accounts and/or single investor vehicles managed 
or advised by Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth Management, in each case, as described in the Offering 
Memorandum) (each, a “Carried Interest Paying Fund,” and collectively, the “Carried Interest Paying Funds”) 
subject to the return hurdles, notch amounts and other limits described in the offering memorandum of each 
Carried Interest Paying Fund and/or the Supplement.
I understand (i) that the vesting dates for the Class O Interests are set forth in the Supplement and are one 
year later than the vesting dates set forth in the Offering Memorandum, (ii)  my obligations under the GS 
Agreements (including the terms of the non-compete provisions), (iii) the illiquid nature of the Class O Interests 
and (iv) the tax consequences associated with the Carried Interest (as defined in the Offering Memorandum).  I 
further understand that (a) I should not expect to receive any distributions (other than potentially tax 
distributions) in respect of the Carried Interest before [   ] (if ever), (b) I may recognize substantial amounts of 
taxable income in each year, the taxes on which may exceed the amount of any distribution from the Fund in 
that year, (c) by accepting this opportunity, I am granting Goldman Sachs the right to net any amounts owed 
under the Employee Special Investments Program, or from other sources, as described in the Offering 
Memorandum and Subscription Agreement, (d) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Partnership 
Agreement or the Offering Memorandum, distributions in respect of the Carried Interests will be subject to the 
Incremental Hurdle and “catch-up” mechanics described in the Supplement and (e) the Fund reserves the right, 
in its sole discretion, to establish and offer to investors one or more additional series or classes of interests with 
terms that may be different from those described herein and in the Supplement, at any time (any such offering, 
a “Re-Offer”), including interests that are entitled to share in a portion of any Carried Interest that may be 
earned from the applicable Carried Interest Paying Funds and, if any Re-Offers are conducted, the amount of 
Carried Interest allocated to me may be delayed or reduced (as compared to the amounts that would have 
been allocated if no Re-Offers had occurred).
By executing the Subscriber Signature Page, I am confirming my understanding of, and agreement to, the 
terms as described in the provisions set forth herein and in the Offering Memorandum and the Supplement with 
respect to the Carried Interest and its potential consequences, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any 
2
documents I have received or may receive in connection with any other Goldman Sachs employee funds in 
which I may own an interest.
PLEASE ENTER SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST AMOUNT ON THE NEXT PAGE.
3
SUBSCRIPTION REQUEST
To the extent different from the GS Offeree, the Subscriber identified in Section I irrevocably REQUESTS the 
opportunity to participate in the Fund with respect to the Class O Interests being offered to the GS Offeree.  
Both the Subscriber and the undersigned GS Offeree (a) re-affirm the Subscription Agreement, including the 
representations, consents, agreements and power of attorney contained therein, which Subscription 
Agreement the Subscriber and GS Offeree had acknowledged and affirmed in connection with the most recent 
prior offering by the Fund, as of the date hereof and (b) acknowledge and affirm that the Subscriber’s 
participation in the Fund is subject to acceptance of the Subscriber’s subscription request, in whole or in part, 
by the Fund.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the Subscription Agreement of the Fund, these Subscription 
Materials are governed by and shall be construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware 
applicable to a contract made and performed wholly within the State of Delaware.
Interests
Amount
Class A Unlevered Equity 
Capital Commitment
US$ __________
Class O Carried Interest
Election to Receive Class O Interests 
(PLEASE INITIAL AS APPROPRIATE)
I ACCEPT _____
I DECLINE _____ 
Please note that in order to participate in the Fund, the GS Offeree (or its controlled entity that is the 
Subscriber) must qualify as an “accredited investor” under the income test set forth in Rule 501(a)(6) 
of Regulation D under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as detailed on pages [   ] and [   ] of these 
Subscription Materials, or in the case of a controlled entity, under another provision of Rule 501(a).
Goldman Sachs reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to reduce in whole or in part your subscription amount 
proportionally or otherwise, including, without limitation, the proportion of Carried Interest to which any Class O 
Interest(s) issued to you relate, with or without adjusting any related capital commitments.
PLEASE CONTINUE ON THE NEXT PAGE.
4
II.
PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS
[           ]
III.
AUTHORIZATION TO DEBIT BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AND TO DEPOSIT DISTRIBUTION INTO 
BROKERAGE ACCOUNT
[           ]
PLEASE COMPLETE THE APPLICABLE INVESTOR CERTIFICATIONS (PAGE [   ] IF THE SUBSCRIBER 
IS AN INDIVIDUAL AND PAGES [   ] IF THE SUBSCRIBER IS AN ENTITY).
5
INVESTOR CERTIFICATION – INDIVIDUAL 
[           ]
6
INVESTOR CERTIFICATION – ENTITY 
[           ]
7
[CERTAIN TAX FORMS]
[           ]
8
DISQUALIFYING EVENTS CERTIFICATION
In connection with the Fund’s obligations relating to “Disqualifying Events” pursuant to Rule 506(d) of 
the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”), please indicate below whether any of the 
following (which are “Disqualifying Events” as provided in Rule 506(d) of the 1933 Act) have occurred 
with respect to you (or any other person with whom you are subscribing, including your spouse, if 
applicable).
Check all applicable boxes and provide the details of any such Disqualifying Events below. 
“Disqualifying Event” includes any of (i) – (viii) below. You must check at least one box below.
□
None of the below have occurred with respect to you (or any other person with whom you are 
subscribing, including your legal spouse, if applicable).
□
(i) a conviction, within the past ten years, of any felony or misdemeanor: (A) in connection with 
the purchase or sale of any security; (B) involving the making of any false filing with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”); or (C) arising out of the conduct of the 
business of an underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid 
solicitor of purchasers of securities;
□
(ii) being subject to any order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, entered 
within the past five years, that, as of the date hereof, restrains or enjoins such person from 
engaging or continuing to engage in any conduct or practice: (A) in connection with the purchase 
or sale of any security; (B) involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or (C) 
arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities 
dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of securities;
□
(iii) being subject to a final order of a state securities commission (or an agency or officer of a 
state performing like functions); a state authority that supervises or examines banks, savings 
associations, or credit unions; a state insurance commission (or an agency or officer of a state 
performing like functions); an appropriate federal banking agency; the U.S. Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission (the “CFTC”); or the National Credit Union Administration that: (A) as of the 
date hereof, bars the person from: (1) association with an entity regulated by such commission, 
authority, agency, or officer; (2) engaging in the business of securities, insurance or banking; or 
(3) engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or (B) constitutes a final order based 
on a violation of any law or regulation that prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct 
entered within the past ten years;
□
(iv) being subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 15(b) or 15B(c) of 
the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and its rules and regulations (the “Exchange 
Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b) or 78o-4(c)) or section 203(e) or (f) of the Investment Advisers Act (15 
U.S.C. 80b-3(e) or (f)) that, as of the date hereof: (A) suspends or revokes such person’s 
registration as a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer or investment adviser; (B) places 
limitations on the activities, functions or operations of such person; or (C) bars such person from 
being associated with any entity or from participating in the offering of any penny stock;
9
□
(v) being subject to any order of the Commission entered within the past five years that, as of the 
date hereof, orders the person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation or 
future violation of: (A) any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the federal securities laws, 
including without limitation section 17(a)(1) of the 1933 Act (15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(1)), section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) and 17 CFR 240.10b-5, section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act 
(15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(1)) and section 206(1) of the Investment Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(1)), or 
any other rule or regulation thereunder; or (B) section 5 of the 1933 Act (15 U.S.C. 77e);
□
(vi) being suspended or expelled from membership in, or suspended or barred from association 
with a member of, a registered national securities exchange or a registered national or affiliated 
securities association for any act or omission to act constituting conduct inconsistent with just and 
equitable principles of trade;
□
(vii) having filed (as a registrant or issuer), or was named as an underwriter in, any registration 
statement or Regulation A offering statement filed with the Commission that, within the past five 
years, was the subject of a refusal order, stop order, or order suspending the Regulation A 
exemption, or is, as of the date hereof, the subject of an investigation or proceeding to determine 
whether a stop order or suspension order should be issued; or
□
(viii) being subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order entered within the 
past five years, or is, as of the date hereof, subject to a temporary restraining order or preliminary 
injunction with respect to conduct alleged by the United States Postal Service to constitute a 
scheme or device for obtaining money or property through the mail by means of false 
representations.
If you check any of (i) – (viii) above, please contact Employee Special Investments and provide the 
dates and the summary of each Disqualifying Event in the space below. You may be required to 
provide additional information.
______________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
Disqualified Person. A person who has committed a Disqualifying Event.
Disqualified Person Disclosure. Any information provided to the Subscriber disclosing whether certain 
persons are Disqualified Persons, including the Fund, any affiliated issuer, any director, executive officer, other 
officer participating in the offering, general partner or managing member of the Fund; any beneficial owner of 
20% or more of the Fund’s outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power; any 
promoter connected with the Fund in any capacity; any investment manager of the Fund; any person that has 
been or will be paid (directly or indirectly) remuneration for solicitation of purchasers in connection with the sale 
of Interests; any general partner or managing member of any such investment manager or solicitor; or any 
10
director, executive officer or other officer participating in the offering of any such investment manager or 
solicitor or general partner or managing member of such investment manager or solicitor.
Disqualified Person Disqualification. Except as disclosed in your response to the question above and any 
additional information requested by Goldman Sachs (as defined in the Offering Memorandum), no Disqualifying 
Event exists with respect to you. You agree to provide the Fund to which you are subscribing pursuant to this 
Subscription Agreement any information that the Fund may reasonably request in order to determine whether 
you are a Disqualified Person, including, without limitation, filings with, and records of, courts and regulators. 
You agree to provide the Fund any information that the Fund may reasonably request in connection with the 
Fund’s compliance with section (e) of Rule 506 of the 1933 Act. You further agree that the Fund may disclose 
to investors and prospective investors in the Fund (i) information provided by you in your response to the 
questions above and any other information that you provide in connection therewith and (ii) any other 
information that the Fund determines is necessary to disclose in connection with its obligations under section 
(e) of Rule 506 of the 1933 Act, including without limitation, your identity. You agree to promptly notify the Fund 
if a Disqualifying Event occurs with respect to you. You further agree that if any Disqualifying Event occurs with 
respect to you on or after September 23, 2013, if you would otherwise have the right to vote more than 20% of 
the Fund’s outstanding voting equity securities (calculated on the basis of voting power), notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary in the Partnership Agreement (as defined in the Offering Memorandum), your voting 
rights with respect to the Fund will be limited to 19.9% of the Fund’s outstanding voting equity securities 
(calculated on the basis of voting power) unless and until the Fund determines otherwise in its sole discretion. 
Furthermore, upon the occurrence of a Disqualifying Event with respect to you, the General Partner and the 
Fund may, in their sole discretion, take any action they determine necessary or advisable in connection with 
compliance with applicable regulations, including, without limitation, redeeming all or a portion of your Interest 
in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, or treating you as a defaulting Limited Partner (as defined in 
the Offering Memorandum) of the Fund and imposing any or all of the penalties applicable to a defaulting 
Limited Partner, in each case, in accordance with, and to the extent set forth in the Partnership Agreement.
PLEASE SIGN AND COMPLETE THE SUBSCRIBER 
AND GS OFFEREE SIGNATURE BLOCKS ON PAGE [   ]
11
SIGNATURE PAGE
Subscriber Name
________________________________________
Signature
________________________________________
Date _______________________
Title of 
Authorized 
Signatory 
(if applicable)
________________________________________
(If the GS Offeree is different from the Subscriber, also complete the signature block below.)
GS Offeree’s 
Name
________________________________________
GS Offeree’s 
Signature
________________________________________
Date _______________________
12
FORM OF SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT FOR
PARTICIPANTS IN THE LONG TERM EXECUTIVE 
CARRIED INTEREST INCENTIVE PROGRAM
Class A Limited Partnership Interests
Class O Limited Partnership Interests
By signing the Subscriber Signature Page, Consent and Power of Attorney (the “Subscriber Signature 
Page”) into which this subscription agreement (collectively with the Subscriber Signature Page, this 
“Subscription Agreement”) is incorporated by reference, the subscriber (the “Subscriber”) hereby 
tenders a subscription and applies for the purchase or acquisition of Class A limited partnership 
interests (“Class A Interests”) and/or Class O limited partnership interests (“Class O Interests” and 
together with Class A Interests, the “Interests”) in [   ] (the “Fund”), in the aggregate amount set forth in 
the Subscriber Signature Page. The Subscriber understands that the Fund reserves the right to reduce 
in whole or in part, in any order (relative to other Subscribers), the amount subscribed for in the 
Subscriber Signature Page, including, without limitation, the proportion of Carried Interest to which any 
Class O Interest(s) issued to you relates, such reduction to be in the Fund’s sole discretion. The 
amount, if any, of the Subscriber’s subscription that the Fund accepts and approves is referred to herein 
as the “Subscription Amount” or “capital commitment.” If the Subscriber is an entity, each of the 
Subscriber and the individual named as the GS Offeree in the Subscriber Signature Page (the “GS 
Offeree”) represents and warrants to the Fund and the Authorized Person (as defined below) that the 
entity is controlled by the GS Offeree. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning 
set forth in the Partnership Agreement (as defined below) or the offering memorandum for the Fund, 
dated [   ], as supplemented through the date hereof (the “Offering Memorandum”).
[           ]
Further, the Subscriber hereby acknowledges and agrees as follows:
1.
Receipt of the Offering Memorandum. The Subscriber acknowledges receipt of the Offering 
Memorandum for the Fund, which includes the private placement memorandum, dated [   ] (as 
amended and supplemented from time to time), for the Fund. The Offering Memorandum 
describes the terms and conditions of the offering of the Interests and the special risks of an 
investment in the Fund. The Access Funds are being established to invest all or substantially all 
of their committed capital in a diversified set of equity-oriented funds sponsored by Goldman 
Sachs Asset & Wealth Management, including [   ]. The [   ] Funds are collectively referred to as 
the “Underlying Funds” and each, separately, an “Underlying Fund.” The Access Funds are 
expected to invest directly or indirectly in the Underlying Funds, and the Underlying Funds are, 
in turn, expected to invest alongside the [   ] funds formed for clients of Goldman Sachs (such 
funds, the “External Funds”).
2.
Adoption of the Partnership Agreement, Subscription Agreement and Other Terms and 
Conditions.
(a)
The Subscriber has carefully read and fully understands, or will carefully read  and fully 
understand, the form of the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership 
Agreement of the [   ], a copy of which has been, or will be, made available to the 
Subscriber (as the same may be amended from time to time, the “Partnership 
Agreement”). The Subscriber hereby accepts, adopts and agrees to be bound by each 
and every provision contained in the Partnership Agreement, hereby agrees to be a 
limited partner under the Partnership Agreement and hereby acknowledges and agrees 
that if the Subscriber’s subscription is accepted in whole or in part, the Subscriber shall, 
Annex A
with no further action on the Subscriber’s part, become a limited partner in the Fund. By 
signing the Subscriber Signature Page, the Subscriber further agrees that, effective on 
the date the Subscriber becomes a limited partner in the Fund, the Subscriber will 
become a party to the Partnership Agreement and the Subscriber Signature Page will 
also serve as a counterpart signature page to the Partnership Agreement of the Fund. 
The Subscriber agrees to fund the total Subscription Amount, including, without 
limitation, funds necessary to satisfy any of the Subscriber’s indemnification and Carried 
Interest clawback obligations (and any applicable fees and expenses and any interest 
due on late payments), in accordance with the terms of the Partnership Agreement and 
this Subscription Agreement.
(b)
The Subscriber has carefully read and fully understands this Subscription Agreement 
and the Disqualified Person Disclosure included in the Subscription Agreement and 
Materials into which this Subscription Agreement is incorporated by reference (the 
“Disqualified Person Disclosure”). The Subscriber hereby accepts, adopts and agrees to 
be bound by this Subscription Agreement.
(c)
The Subscriber has carefully read and fully understands the Offering Memorandum. The 
Subscriber hereby accepts, adopts and agrees to be bound by the various provisions, 
terms and obligations of an investment and ongoing participation in the Fund as 
described in the Offering Memorandum including, without limitation, the provisions, terms 
and obligations described in the following sections of the Offering Memorandum: [   ].
3.
Provision of Credit Support. 
(a)
The following is applicable only to Subscribers that are GS Offerees who are 
executive officers or directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. or its successor 
or affiliated companies (“SOX Insiders”) and to Subscribers that are controlled by 
SOX Insiders. The Subscriber understands that as a result of Section 402 of the United 
States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), Goldman 
Sachs & Co. LLC (together with its affiliates, “Goldman Sachs”) is prohibited from 
extending, maintaining or arranging for the extension of credit in the form of a personal 
loan to or for the Subscriber. The Subscriber hereby acknowledges that The Goldman 
Sachs Group, Inc. or any of its affiliates, including, without limitation, Goldman Sachs, or 
any third party may, subject to applicable law, make or arrange a loan to or guarantee 
debt of the Fund, any Underlying Fund, [   ] (the “Main Offshore Fund”), [   ] (the “UK 
Offshore Fund” and, together with the Fund and the Main Offshore Fund, the “Access 
Funds”) or any investment or financing vehicle organized by or for the Fund (an 
“Investment Vehicle”), which will be supported by a pledge by the Fund of its rights under 
the Partnership Agreement and its subscription agreements with limited partners in the 
Fund, including, without limitation, this Subscription Agreement, to require the limited 
partners in the Fund who are not SOX Insiders to fund their commitments under their 
subscription agreements and/or the Partnership Agreement. The Subscriber further 
acknowledges that Goldman Sachs may lend money to, or on behalf of, any Underlying 
Fund or any Investment Vehicle to finance an investment prior to the funding of a 
commitment under this Subscription Agreement. The Subscriber understands that for the 
purposes of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Fund may require the 
Subscriber to fund its commitments under this Subscription Agreement in advance of 
limited partners in the Fund who are not SOX Insiders upon not less than five calendar 
days’ notice and/or in disproportionately larger amounts, or in lieu of pre-funding 
commitments under this Subscription Agreement, the Fund may require SOX Insiders to 
A-2
purchase Preferred Interests (as defined below) or invest through Alternative Investment 
Vehicles which do not incur leverage in connection with a particular investment. The 
Subscriber understands that the Subscriber’s unfunded capital commitments under this 
Subscription Agreement may, but need not, be pledged to support any such loan or 
guarantee. The Subscriber understands that other circumstances may arise in which 
considerations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will make it necessary or advisable for the 
Fund, in its sole discretion, to require pre-funding of commitments by the Subscriber 
under this Subscription Agreement in advance of other limited partners of the Fund who 
are not SOX Insiders and upon not less than five calendars days’ notice.
(b)
[The following is applicable only to Subscribers that are neither a SOX Insider nor 
controlled by a SOX Insider. The Subscriber hereby acknowledges that, in the event 
Goldman Sachs or any third party makes a loan to or guarantees any debt of any 
Underlying Fund or any Investment Vehicle, the Fund may pledge or assign, or 
otherwise make available as credit support for any loan or guarantee (collectively, “Credit 
Support”), assets of the Fund. Without limiting the foregoing, the Fund may contribute or 
pledge the rights and interests of the Fund under this Subscription Agreement and/or the 
Partnership Agreement in respect of the Subscriber’s uncalled capital commitment 
evidenced by the Interest acquired by the Subscriber and any other payment obligations 
of the Subscriber to the Fund, and the Fund may assign or pledge the rights and 
interests of the Fund in the capital commitment or other payment obligations to the Fund 
from the Subscriber, including, without limitation, the right to call and receive capital 
pursuant to the capital commitment, as collateral for the obligations of any Underlying 
Fund or any Investment Vehicle in respect of any loan or guarantee. In the event of a 
default on any loan or performance under any guarantee, the Subscriber understands 
that the lender and/or guarantor may have recourse to the Subscriber’s obligations to 
make additional contributions or other payments to the Fund, including, without 
limitation, any remainder of the Subscriber’s Subscription Amount to be paid hereunder, 
which obligations the Subscriber will perform in full and without condition regardless of 
any defense to, or right of offset against, or counterclaim with respect to, the obligation to 
fund the Subscriber’s contributions.]
4.
Consent to Principal and Agency Cross Transactions with Goldman Sachs. Subject to 
applicable law, the Subscriber hereby consents to any Underlying Fund, or any Investment 
Vehicle engaging in securities transactions with Goldman Sachs in which Goldman Sachs will 
act as agent or principal, including, without limitation, the purchase of securities from or sale of 
securities to Goldman Sachs as principal and the entering into of derivative transactions such as 
interest rate or currency swaps, forwards or other hedging devices with Goldman Sachs or its 
affiliates. Without limiting the foregoing, the Subscriber also consents to:
(a)
any Underlying Fund or any Investment Vehicle selling securities in a public offering in 
which Goldman Sachs acts as managing underwriter or a member of an underwriting 
syndicate;
(b)
Goldman Sachs effecting, on behalf of any Underlying Fund or any Investment Vehicle, 
transactions in securities where Goldman Sachs is also acting as broker for, receives 
commissions from, and may have a potentially conflicting division of loyalty and 
responsibility regarding, both parties to the transaction, known as agency cross 
transactions;
A-3
(c)
the aggregation of orders for securities for the account of any Underlying Fund or any 
Investment Vehicle with orders for other accounts of Goldman Sachs, which may be 
disadvantageous to the Fund;
(d)
all transactions in which Goldman Sachs acts as a principal, counterparty, underwriter or 
broker on the other side of a transaction with any Underlying Fund, or any Investment 
Vehicle, and the Subscriber acknowledges that, in the event that Goldman Sachs 
purchases investments on behalf of and for sale to any Underlying Fund or any 
Investment Vehicle, the Underlying Fund or the Investment Vehicle, as the case may be, 
will pay to Goldman Sachs, as the purchase price for these investments, the amount 
paid by Goldman Sachs for such investments together with interest at commercially 
reasonable arm’s length rates;
(e)
all investments or co-investments in entities in which Goldman Sachs has or is making a 
principal investment or for which Goldman Sachs is providing or arranging financing at 
the time of investment by any Underlying Fund or any Investment Vehicle;
(f)
the appointment of an Investment Committee of Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth 
Management or an advisory committee, if formed, to approve (i) any transaction for 
which consent is required under the United States Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as 
amended, or the Application (as defined below) (or any order of the SEC (as defined 
below) approving the Application) and (ii) all the transactions in which Goldman Sachs 
acts as a principal (including, without limitation, in connection with a “riskless principal” 
trade or “block trade”) or underwriter, as broker for any Underlying Fund or any 
Investment Vehicle, or as broker on the other side of a transaction with the Fund or 
bunches or aggregates transactions with others;
(g)
the payment of commissions to Goldman Sachs and retention by Goldman Sachs of any 
commissions, remuneration or other profits which Goldman Sachs may receive or realize 
in the aforementioned transactions; and
(h)
any Underlying Fund or any Investment Vehicle retaining Goldman Sachs to perform 
investment banking and other services, including, without limitation, underwriting, merger 
advisory, placement agency, selling agency, stock brokerage, real estate brokerage and 
other advisory services.
The Subscriber acknowledges and agrees that in connection with the transactions described 
above, Goldman Sachs will receive customary fees, plus expenses and indemnities.
5.
Preferred Interests. The following is applicable only to Subscribers that are either a SOX 
Insider or controlled by a SOX Insider. The Subscriber hereby agrees that the Fund in its sole 
discretion may issue to the Subscriber preferred limited partnership interests (“Preferred 
Interests”), representing all or a portion of the proceeds of any funding of commitments under 
the Subscription Agreement and paying a fixed or floating rate of return, but not otherwise 
participating in the performance of the Fund. The Subscriber further understands that the return 
on such Preferred Interests may be less than if the same portion of the proceeds of the funding 
were invested in the Subscriber’s Interests and that the Fund in its sole discretion may redeem 
the Subscriber’s Preferred Interests in whole or in part, whereupon the funds contributed in 
respect of the Preferred Interests will participate in the performance of the Fund.
6.
Carried Interest. The Subscriber understands that the Subscriber’s Class O Interests (if any) 
will share in a portion of any Carried Interest that is earned in respect of the External Funds of 
A-4
the Underlying Funds as well as other external funds, entities, separate accounts and/or single 
investor vehicles managed or advised by Goldman Sachs Asset Management, in each case, as 
determined by Goldman Sachs in its sole discretion (all such funds, the “Carried Interest Paying 
Funds”). The Subscriber further understands that the Subscriber may be required, under the 
circumstances described in the Offering Memorandum, to recontribute to the Fund all or a 
portion of any Carried Interest the Subscriber may have indirectly received from the Carried 
Interest Paying Funds. The Subscriber agrees that the Subscriber will recontribute these 
amounts as and when required by the Fund.
7.
Services Required of Class O Interest Holders. In connection with the Subscriber’s 
acquisition of Class O Interests (if any), the Subscriber agrees (or if the Subscriber is an entity, 
the Subscriber agrees to cause its related GS Offeree, and the related GS Offeree agrees) to 
consult or provide other services, consistent with his or her role as a partner of Goldman Sachs, 
as reasonably requested by Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth Management or Goldman Sachs, 
regarding matters relevant to the Carried Interest Paying Funds, including, without limitation, 
regarding potential or current investments. The Subscriber acknowledges that any such 
consulting or other services, would only be required to be provided upon reasonable notice and 
subject to (i) such services not conflicting with the Subscriber’s (or its related GS Offeree’s) 
other duties and responsibilities to Goldman Sachs and (ii) applicable legal, tax, regulatory and 
other internal policy considerations (including information barriers).
8.
Power of Attorney. The Subscriber hereby irrevocably makes, constitutes and appoints the 
General Partner (including, without limitation, any successor General Partner) (the “Authorized 
Person”) of the Fund, acting by any of its officers or designees, the true and lawful agent and 
attorney-in-fact of the Subscriber, with full power of substitution and full power and authority in 
the Subscriber’s name, place and stead to (i) change or correct on the Subscriber’s behalf all 
documents (including this Subscription Agreement and the Subscriber Signature Page) 
executed by the Subscriber in connection with his, her or its subscription to the Fund, including, 
without limitation, filling in, changing or amending amounts, dates, name of the Fund, or other 
pertinent information or changing or providing answers to the questions contained in this 
Subscription Agreement or related documents, in each case, based upon written or verbal 
instructions from the Subscriber, and the Subscriber hereby agrees that he, she or it will be 
bound by the terms of any such document as so modified, and (ii) make, complete, change, 
correct, execute, sign, acknowledge, swear to, deliver, record and file, on the Subscriber’s 
behalf and on behalf of the Fund, such documents, instruments and conveyances that may be 
necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions or purposes of this Subscription Agreement 
and the Partnership Agreement, including, without limitation:
(a)
the Partnership Agreement and any instruments or agreements required or permitted by 
law or the provisions of the Partnership Agreement, including, without limitation, those to 
effect the admission to or withdrawal from the Fund of Limited Partners (as defined in the 
Partnership Agreement) and substituted Limited Partners, and all instruments that the 
Authorized Person deems necessary or appropriate to reflect a change, modification or 
novation of the Partnership Agreement, in accordance therewith;
(b)
all certificates and other instruments deemed necessary or advisable by the Authorized 
Person to carry out the provisions of the Partnership Agreement or the Subscriber’s 
obligations hereunder or thereunder, including, without limitation, such certificates, 
agreements and other documents as may be necessary (i) to organize, invest in and 
conduct business through one or more investment or finance vehicles, including, without 
limitation, any Investment Vehicles (“Fund Entities”), (ii) to permit the Fund to become or 
A-5
to continue as a limited partnership or a company wherein the limited partners have 
limited liability in the jurisdictions where the Fund may be doing business, or (iii) in the 
event that Goldman Sachs or any third party makes a loan to or guarantees any debt of 
the Fund or any Fund Entities, to permit the Fund to pledge or assign, or otherwise make 
available as Credit Support for any such loan or guarantee, assets of the Fund, the 
capital commitments of the Limited Partners, or both;
(c)
all conveyances and other instruments or papers deemed advisable by the Authorized 
Person to effect the winding-up and dissolution of the Fund;
(d)
all fictitious or assumed name certificates required or permitted to be filed on behalf of 
the Fund;
(e)
any and all documentation necessary to pledge, assign or otherwise transfer or 
encumber Fund assets, including, without limitation, the right to make and collect capital 
contributions;
(f)
any and all documentation necessary to permit the Fund or the Authorized Person or its 
respective designee to redeem, purchase, sell, transfer, convey and assign, including, 
without limitation, as contemplated by the Partnership Agreement, the Interest (or any 
portion thereof) of any Limited Partner (including, without limitation, all or any portion of 
the Subscriber’s own Interest) to any transferee, including, without limitation, the 
Authorized Person, the Fund or Goldman Sachs;
(g)
U.K. Investors Only: the elections under Section 431 of the Income Tax (Earnings and 
Pensions) Act 2003, included in the Subscription Agreement and Materials into which 
this Subscription Agreement is incorporated by reference;
(h)
the election under Section 83(b) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
amended (the “Code”), included in the Subscription Agreement and Materials into which 
this Subscription Agreement is incorporated by reference; and
(i)
all other instruments or papers which may be required or permitted by law to be filed on 
behalf of the Fund, or which the Authorized Person considers necessary or desirable to 
carry out the business of the Fund.
The foregoing power of attorney:
(a)
is coupled with an interest, shall be irrevocable, shall not be affected by and shall survive 
the death, incapacity, dissolution, termination or bankruptcy of the Subscriber;
(b)
may be exercised by the Authorized Person without notice to or any additional action on 
the part of any Subscriber, either by signing separately as attorney-in-fact for each 
Subscriber or, after listing all of the Subscribers executing an instrument, by a single 
signature of the Authorized Person acting as attorney-in-fact for all of them; and
(c)
shall survive the transfer by the Subscriber of the whole or any portion of the 
Subscriber’s Interest; except that, where the transferee of the whole of the Interest has 
been approved by the Authorized Person for admission to the Fund as a substituted 
Limited Partner, the power of attorney of the transferor shall survive the delivery of the 
transfer for the sole purpose of enabling the Authorized Person to execute, swear to, 
acknowledge and file any instrument necessary or appropriate to effect the substitution.
A-6
9.
Representations and Warranties. The Subscriber represents and warrants to the Fund and 
the Authorized Person that:
(a)
The Subscriber is purchasing the Interests for the Subscriber’s account for investment 
purposes only and not for distribution or resale to others. The Subscriber agrees that the 
Subscriber will not sell or otherwise transfer these securities unless they are registered 
under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”), or unless 
an exemption from registration is available therefrom.
(b)
The Subscriber understands that the Interests are speculative investments that involve a 
high degree of risk of loss, has adequate means of providing for the Subscriber’s current 
needs and possible personal contingencies, has no need for liquidity of this investment, 
and is financially able to withstand the loss of the Subscriber’s entire investment in the 
Fund.
(c)
The Subscriber will pay the Subscription Amount only from the Subscriber’s own funds 
(including, without limitation, in the case of an entity controlled by a GS Offeree, funds 
gifted or contributed to the Subscriber by the GS Offeree). The Subscriber understands 
that investing funds provided by any person other than the GS Offeree is strictly 
prohibited.
(d)
The Subscriber understands that the Subscriber has no right to require the purchase of 
the Subscriber’s Interests; that the transferability of the Interests is severely limited and 
that any transfer requires the consent of the Authorized Person, which may be withheld 
in its sole discretion; that there will be no public market for Interests and it will therefore 
not be readily possible to sell or dispose of the Interests being acquired; and that the 
Subscriber will not be readily able to liquidate this investment.
(e)
The Subscriber understands that the Interests have not been registered under the 1933 
Act in reliance on the private placement exemption thereunder, and thus the Subscriber 
will not be afforded the protections of registration under that act. Further, the Subscriber 
understands that Goldman Sachs has filed an application (together with any 
amendments thereto, the “Application”) with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission (the “SEC”) seeking an order exempting the Fund, as an “employees’ 
securities company,” from most, but not all, of the provisions of the U.S. Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (as amended, the “1940 Act”), including registration thereunder 
and certain prohibitions on transactions with Goldman Sachs. The Fund will rely on Rule 
6b-1 under the 1940 Act, pursuant to which the Fund will be exempt from the provisions 
of the 1940 Act, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Application (or any 
order of the SEC approving the Application). Thus, Subscribers of the Fund thus will not 
be afforded most of the protections afforded by the 1940 Act. If an order approving the 
Application is not obtained, the Fund will rely on the order dated August 14, 1998 
(Release No. IC 23390), which was previously obtained from the SEC, to be exempt 
from the provisions of the 1940 Act, subject to the terms of that order.
(f)
The Subscriber has carefully read and fully understands the Offering Memorandum, this 
Subscription Agreement and the Disqualified Person Disclosure, including, without 
limitation, the risks of an investment set forth in the Offering Memorandum, and has 
been given the opportunity to ask questions and receive answers concerning the terms 
and conditions of the offering and other matters pertaining to an investment in the Fund.
A-7
(g)
The Subscriber has carefully read and fully understands the discussion of consequences 
of departure in the Offering Memorandum, including, without limitation, the impact of a 
breach by the GS Offeree or Subscriber of any provision of any agreement, arrangement 
or understanding with Goldman Sachs, and the impact of engaging in certain competitive 
activities, or failing to provide certain certifications to Goldman Sachs, and understands 
that, upon the occurrence of certain termination events described in the Offering 
Memorandum under the caption [   ] and in the Partnership Agreement, when available, 
as well as certain other events relating to the GS Offeree or Subscriber, (1) some or all 
of the Subscriber’s applicable Class A Interests will be subject to (i) conversion 
(including, without limitation, to a Class C Interest) and/or (ii) purchase or transfer, and/or 
(2) some or all of the Subscriber’s Class O Interests will be subject to forfeiture for no 
consideration. If the Subscriber is an entity, the events of conversion, withdrawal, 
redemption, purchase or transfer described therein will be triggered by the associated 
employee engaging in the conduct described therein.
The Subscriber understands that any such purchase, conversion, transfer or forfeiture of 
Class O Interests may have adverse economic and tax consequences. The method for 
determining the purchase price is more completely set forth in the Partnership 
Agreement.
(h)
If the Subscriber is an entity, it understands that (i) it may be subject to special tax 
considerations not discussed in the Offering Memorandum, (ii) it has consulted with its 
own tax advisor as to all of the U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax consequences 
of an investment in the Fund and (iii) except as otherwise consented to by the General 
Partner, in the event of any direct or indirect Transfer of interests in, or any direct or 
indirect change in control of, any entity directly or indirectly investing in the Fund, the 
General Partner may, but will be under no obligation to, cause the Fund to purchase or 
cause the Transfer or forfeiture of the Subscriber’s Interest.
(i)
If the Subscriber is an entity, it is not, nor has it elected, nor will it elect under Treas. Reg. 
§ 301.7701-3 to be (i) treated as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax 
purposes or (ii) treated as a “grantor trust” for U.S. federal income tax purposes under 
Sections 671-674 of the Code. The Subscriber has full power and authority to execute 
and deliver the Subscription Agreement and to subscribe for and purchase the Interests 
in the manner provided herein. The execution and delivery of the Subscription 
Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the 
Subscriber and will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Subscriber, 
enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
(j)
The Subscriber, by signing the Subscriber Signature Page, hereby agrees that if the 
Subscriber ceases or expects to cease to be a “United States person” as defined in 
Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code, the Subscriber shall first provide prior written notice to 
the General Partner of the change in the Subscriber’s status as a United States person 
at least 60 days prior to such change in status. The Subscriber agrees that, subject to 
the conditions set forth in the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner in its 
discretion may cause the Fund (i) to transfer the Subscriber’s interest in the Fund to 
another United States person or (ii) to redeem the Subscriber’s interest in the Fund, in 
each case prior to such change in status.
(k)
The Subscriber, by signing the Subscriber Signature Page, hereby agrees that in the 
event that the Subscriber (i) does not fund any funding notices or capital calls duly made 
or make other contributions duly called pursuant to the partnership agreement (or other 
A-8
governing documents) of any employee special investments in which the Subscriber 
owns an interest, including, without limitation, the Partnership Agreement and the Fund, 
or (ii) does not recontribute any amounts previously distributed as permitted by the 
partnership agreement (or other governing documents) of such investments, including, 
without limitation, the Partnership Agreement and the Fund, the Subscriber authorizes 
Goldman Sachs or any of its affiliates without further notice or presentment, to the extent 
permitted under applicable law, including, without limitation, Section 409A of the Code, to 
deduct any or all amount(s) due from any or all of the following (each of which shall 
include any such amounts due, delivered or paid to the GS Offeree, if the Subscriber is 
an entity):
(1)
any amount due or to become due to the Subscriber in distributions from 
investments in which the Subscriber is invested under the Employee Special 
Investments Program now or at any time in the future;
(2)
any stock deliveries made under the GS Stock Incentive Plan if otherwise 
permitted under the terms of the applicable award agreement;
(3)
any cash and/or any proceeds from the liquidation of any marketable securities, 
including, without limitation, Goldman Sachs stock, held in the Subscriber’s 
Goldman Sachs brokerage account(s) (including, without limitation, joint 
accounts);
(4)
any amounts paid to the Subscriber in connection with the Subscriber’s departure 
from Goldman Sachs, including, without limitation, severance payments; and
(5)
any amounts due to the Subscriber as T&E reimbursements.
(l)
The Subscriber, by signing the Subscriber Signature Page, hereby authorizes the Fund 
to (i) withdraw funds allocated to the Subscriber’s capital account if necessary to satisfy 
any obligation owed by the Subscriber to Goldman Sachs, and (ii) to the extent such 
funds are insufficient, cause the Subscriber’s Interest to be forfeited or reallocated.
(m)
The Subscriber, by signing the Subscriber Signature Page, hereby agrees to provide to 
the Fund any information, documentation, waiver, or certification that the Fund or the 
General Partner may reasonably request or require in order to comply with applicable 
United States and non-United States laws, including tax laws. In addition, the Subscriber 
agrees to update such information if and when any such information is no longer true or 
correct and to provide any additional true and correct information required pursuant to 
any change in law, or the application or interpretation thereof.
(n)
Without limiting the foregoing, the Subscriber acknowledges that certain terms described 
herein (including, without limitation, the terms described in clauses (g), (k) and (l) above) 
materially affect Interests the Subscriber acquires in this offer, as well as interests 
previously acquired in other offers. By signing the Subscriber Signature Page, the 
Subscriber is confirming the Subscriber’s understanding of, and agreement to, the terms 
as described in the provisions set forth herein and in the Offering Memorandum and the 
Partnership Agreement and their potential consequences, notwithstanding anything to 
the contrary, if applicable, in the constituent documents of other employee special 
investments in which the Subscriber may own an interest.
A-9
(o)
The Subscriber represents that they are not named on a list of prohibited entities and 
individuals maintained by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets 
Control (“OFAC”) or under the European Union (“EU”) and United Kingdom (“U.K.”) 
Regulations (as extended to the Cayman Islands by statutory instrument), and is not 
operationally based or domiciled in a country or territory in relation to which current 
sanctions have been issued by the United Nations, EU or U.K. (collectively, “Sanctions 
Lists”).
10.
Indemnification. The Subscriber agrees that the amount of the Subscriber’s capital 
commitment plus distributions received from the Fund will be available to satisfy indemnity and 
contribution obligations on the terms described in the Offering Memorandum. The Fund may 
provide each affected Subscriber with an invoice setting forth the amount owed by the 
Subscriber in respect of any such indemnity and contribution obligations. The affected 
Subscriber agrees that it will be obligated to pay the invoiced amount promptly upon request by 
the Fund. Any amount not so paid will constitute an obligation of the Subscriber and will accrue 
interest at an annual rate of 8% (or a higher commercially reasonable rate determined by the 
General Partner in its sole discretion), and that amount, together with accrued interest, will be 
debited from any distributions otherwise to be made to the Subscriber.
11.
Access to Information. The Subscriber acknowledges that he, she or it has had the 
opportunity, a reasonable period of time before the due date of this Subscription Agreement, to 
ask questions and receive answers concerning the terms and conditions of this offering of 
Interests and to obtain any additional information necessary to verify the accuracy of information 
furnished to the Subscriber. The Subscriber acknowledges that all documents, records, and 
books pertaining to this investment have been made available for inspection by the Subscriber 
and by the Subscriber’s attorney, accountant or other representative, and that the books and 
records of the Fund will be available for inspection by its limited partners as required by 
applicable law. The Subscriber further understands that the Fund will provide annual audited 
financial statements to its limited partners. The Subscriber acknowledges and understands that 
if Goldman Sachs determines a Subscriber has failed to comply with GS Agreements, then the 
Fund may withhold from such Subscriber information the Subscriber would otherwise be entitled 
to receive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Subscriber acknowledges and understands that if 
a Limited Partner leaves Goldman Sachs (or in the case of an Affiliated Investor Entity the 
related GS Offeree leaves Goldman Sachs), then the General Partner may, in its sole discretion, 
withhold from that Limited Partner some of the information Limited Partners are otherwise 
entitled to receive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
12.
Guarantee and Consent to Pledge by the GS Offeree. The GS Offeree, by signing the 
Subscriber Signature Page, hereby guarantees the complete and timely fulfillment of (a) the 
Subscriber’s obligations to pay the Subscription Amount, as set forth in the second paragraph 
and in Section 2 of this Subscription Agreement, (b) the Subscriber’s obligation to recontribute 
certain amounts to the Fund as and when required by the General Partner, including, without 
limitation, to satisfy any of the Subscriber’s indemnification obligations, as described under the 
caption [   ] in the Offering Memorandum or to satisfy any clawback of Carried Interest and (c) 
any other amounts that the Subscriber is obligated to pay to the Fund pursuant to the 
Partnership Agreement or this Subscription Agreement. [In addition, Subscribers that are neither 
a SOX Insider nor controlled by a SOX Insider hereby consent to the pledging by the General 
Partner of the guarantee given in the preceding sentence for the same purposes as set forth in 
Section 3(b) of this Subscription Agreement.]
A-10
13.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The following is applicable only to Subscribers that are either a SOX 
Insider or controlled by a SOX Insider. The Subscriber understands that the Authorized 
Person has the authority to modify the Subscriber’s Interests or, in some cases, to redeem the 
Subscriber’s Interests in whole or in part as the Authorized Person deems necessary or 
appropriate to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any such modification or redemption may 
have adverse financial and tax consequences for the Subscriber.
14.
Governing Law Clause. The Subscriber Signature Page (including this Subscription Agreement 
which is incorporated by reference therein) is governed by and shall be construed in accordance 
with the internal laws of the State of Delaware applicable to a contract made and performed 
wholly within the State of Delaware.
15.
Arbitration. The arbitration provisions in the Partnership Agreement shall apply to this 
Subscription Agreement.
A-11
FORM OF SUPPLEMENT TO THE SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT FOR
PARTICIPANTS IN THE LONG TERM EXECUTIVE 
CARRIED INTEREST INCENTIVE PROGRAM
Class A Limited Partnership Interests
Class O Limited Partnership Interests
This Supplement does not contain a complete description of the Fund or other matters 
appearing in the Offering Memorandum, and should be read in conjunction with the Partnership 
Agreement and the Offering Memorandum. If you have any questions about the Fund or this 
offering, please contact the designated contact person in the launch email.
The Offering
Goldman Sachs is granting participants in the Long Term Executive Carried Interest Program 
(“Executive Participants”) and/or certain controlled entities of such Executive Participants Class 
O limited partnership interests (“Class O Interests”) and, in connection with that grant, 
Executive Participants will make an unlevered equity capital commitment (“Class A Interests,” 
and together with the Class O Interests, the “Interests”) in the [   ] (the “Fund”).
Subscription Deadline
To subscribe, you must complete, date, execute and deliver an executed Subscription Agreement and 
Materials on or before [   ]. The grant will be effective [   ].
Future Capital Calls
As of the date of this Supplement, the Fund has called [●%] of equity capital commitments.  By 
agreeing to acquire Interests pursuant to this offering, you are agreeing to fund all future capital calls as 
and when instructed via capital call notice from the Fund.
Class A Interests
Class A Interests will share in the profits and losses from the Fund’s investment activities and 
operations without being subject to a management fee or carried interest payable to Goldman Sachs at 
the level of the Fund or the Underlying Funds, subject to the Class A Vesting Date described below.  
Class A Interests will, however, indirectly bear management fees, carried interest and/or similar fees 
and expenses charged by Non-GS External Fund managers at the level of the Non-GS External Funds.  
The Class A Interests will not be entitled to the benefits, nor subject to the risks and detriments, of 
leverage. The holders of Class A Interests will be required to make capital contributions in respect of the 
Class A Interests for which they subscribe.
Class A Interests are governed by the terms of the Partnership Agreement and the Offering 
Memorandum; provided, however, that contrary to the vesting dates set forth in the Partnership 
Agreement and the Offering Memorandum (as it relates to Class A Interests), any Class A Interests 
acquired pursuant to this offering will vest on December 31, [   ] (the “Class A Vesting Date”).  If an 
Executive Participant’s Employment terminates, for any reason (whether due to voluntary or 
involuntary termination of employment), before the Class A Vesting Date, the General Partner 
will have the right, but not the obligation, to (a) convert the Executive Participant’s Class A 
Interest to a Class C Interest, which, subject to applicable law, will be subject to the Class C 
Annex B
Management Fee and Class C Carried Interest, or (b) cause the redemption, purchase or transfer 
of any Class A Interest or Class C Interest of such Executive Participant at a price equal to the 
Minimum Purchase Price.
[           ]
Class O Interests
Class O Interests are entitled to share in a portion of any Carried Interest that may be earned in respect 
of the applicable Carried Interest Paying Funds subject to the return hurdles, notch amounts and other 
limits described in the offering memorandum of each Carried Interest Paying Fund and/or the 
Supplement. If the return hurdles and notch amounts are achieved or exceeded as of [   ], the Class O 
Interests will only be entitled to share in a portion of any Carried Interest that may be earned in respect 
of the applicable Carried Interest Paying Fund to the extent that (i) the applicable Carried Interest 
Paying Fund’s limited partners have achieved or exceeded the return hurdle or notch amount described 
in the offering memorandum of each applicable Carried Interest Paying Fund (the “Original Hurdle”) and 
(ii) the aggregate realized and estimated value of the Carried Interest Paying Funds’ investments 
(calculated on the assumption that all unrealized investments were disposed of for their fair values 
immediately prior to a distribution or measurement date for such Class O Interests) as a percentage of 
the Carried Interest Paying Funds’ aggregate investment costs represents at least the applicable 
percentage as of [   ] (as finally determined by Goldman Sachs in accordance with its valuation 
procedures) plus [   ]% (the “Class O Incremental Hurdle”). For the avoidance of doubt, because the 
Class O Interests may be subject to the Class O Incremental Hurdle, prior Class O Interests that are not 
subject to an additional hurdle, or that are subject to a different additional hurdle, may have value while 
Class O Interests acquired pursuant to this offering have no value.
To the extent the Class O Incremental Hurdle is required, until the Class O Incremental Hurdle has 
been achieved, any Carried Interest associated with the Class O Interests shall be allocated to 
Goldman Sachs. Once the Class O Incremental Hurdle has been achieved, each holder of Class O 
Interests will be allocated, in respect of its Class O Interest, pro rata based on all Class O Interests, (i) 
the Carried Interest associated with the applicable Class O Interest earned after that point and (ii) a 
portion of the Carried Interest held by Goldman Sachs, until the holders of Class O Interests have been 
allocated an amount of Carried Interest that they would have been allocated in the absence of the 
Original Hurdle, Class O Incremental Hurdle or any notch amount set forth in the Partnership 
Agreement (the amount described in clause (ii), the “Catch-up Amount”). Each holder of a Class O 
Interest will receive the Carried Interest associated with the applicable Class O Interest earned after 
holders of Class O Interests have received the Catch-up Amount in respect of their Class O Interests. 
The foregoing may be applied at the level of a subsidiary of the Fund.
As a result of the mechanic described in the previous paragraph, in order for holders of Class O 
Interests to be allocated the entire Catch-up Amount, there must be sufficient gains (as determined for 
U.S. Federal income tax purposes) with respect to the Carried Interest allocated to the holders of Class 
O Interests and to Goldman Sachs after the Class O Incremental Hurdle has been achieved. If any Re-
Offers are conducted, such gains would be allocated among additional holders of Carried Interest, and 
the amounts allocated to holders of Class O Interests in respect of the Catch-up Amount may be 
delayed or reduced (as compared to the amounts that would have been allocated if no Re-Offers had 
occurred). Moreover, if as of the termination of the applicable Carried Interest Paying Fund (or at such 
earlier time in the sole discretion of Goldman Sachs) both the Original Hurdle (if any) and the Class O 
Incremental Hurdle have not been satisfied, any Carried Interest that otherwise would have been 
distributed to the holders of Class O Interests shall instead be distributed to Goldman Sachs.
B-2
Under the circumstances described in [   ] of the Offering Memorandum, you may be required to re-
contribute to the Fund all or a portion of the Carried Interest that has been distributed to you (e.g., if the 
Fund becomes obligated to re-contribute to the Carried Interest Paying Funds all or a portion of any 
Carried Interest previously received from the Carried Interest Paying Funds because the investors in 
the Carried Interest Paying Funds have not received their priority return amount). By agreeing to 
acquire Interests pursuant to this offering, you are agreeing that you will re-contribute these amounts as 
and when required. Class O Interests are being granted for no consideration as the Class O Interests 
are currently estimated to have no value. [           ]
Holders of Class O Interests should be aware that regulations under Section 1061 of the Internal 
Revenue Code that were finalized in 2021 could cause a recharacterization of Carried Interest, with the 
effect that a substantial portion of your income from the Funds may be treated as ordinary income for 
U.S. tax purposes.
Vesting
Contrary to the vesting dates set forth in the Offering Memorandum and the Partnership Agreement (as 
it relates to Class O Interests), any Class O Interests acquired pursuant to this offering will vest one-
third on December 31, [   ], an additional one-third on December 31, [   ] (for a total of two-thirds having 
vested as of such date, including the amount vested on December 31, [   ]) and the final one-third on 
December 31, [   ] (for a total of 100% having vested as of such date, including the amounts vested on 
December 31, [   ] and December 31, [   ]) (each date, a “Class O Vesting Date” and together, the 
“Class O Vesting Dates”). Except in the case of Retirement (as described below), a departure from 
Goldman Sachs (or any successors thereto) for any reason (whether due to voluntary or 
involuntary termination of employment) prior to the applicable Class O Vesting Date will result 
in the automatic forfeiture, for no consideration, of the unvested portion of your Class O 
Interests. These vesting provisions will apply irrespective of involuntary termination (including 
due to downsizing) or death or adjudication of incompetence (i.e., vesting will not be 
accelerated for any reason). 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employment of an Executive Participant is terminated by 
Retirement, such Executive Participant’s Class O Interests will not be subject to forfeiture. Instead, such 
Interests that have not yet vested will vest according to the Class O Vesting Dates set forth above; 
provided, however, that such Executive Participant’s rights to any Class O Interest that become 
vested by virtue of Retirement will terminate and such Executive Participant will have no further 
rights in respect of that Class O Interest following such Executive Participant’s Association with 
a Covered Enterprise on or before the applicable Class O Vesting Date. Class O Interests will not 
be eligible for continued vesting as described in the preceding sentence if: (i) such Executive 
Participant or Goldman Sachs gives notice of termination, or such Executive Participant’s Employment 
terminates for any reason, prior to the date such Executive Participant would otherwise qualify for 
Retirement; (ii) such Executive Participant’s Employment terminates while Goldman Sachs is 
considering whether such Executive Participant engaged in conduct constituting Cause or after 
Goldman Sachs determines that such Executive Participant has engaged in conduct constituting 
Cause; or (iii) such Executive Participant has Breached an Obligation to the Firm. Goldman Sachs will 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether the Executive Participant meets the eligibility criteria for 
continued vesting described in this paragraph, and the Interests to which continued vesting may apply. 
The terms and conditions of an investment in the Fund applicable to an Executive Participant’s Interests 
will remain in full force and effect; including, without limitation, provisions that provide for termination of 
some or all of an Executive Participant’s rights such as redemption, transfer and/or forfeiture of vested 
Class O Interests, as well as the Additional Conditions Applicable to Class O Interests described below.
[           ]
B-3
Additional Conditions Applicable to Class O Interests
Notwithstanding the terms of the Partnership Agreement and the Offering Memorandum, the conditions 
set forth below apply to an Executive Participant’s Class O Interests, in addition to any other terms or 
conditions that permit forfeiture, cancellation, conversion or liquidation of the Executive Participant’s 
Interests.
Certain Forfeiture Events
If Goldman Sachs determines that an Executive Participant has engaged in one or more of the following 
events, the General Partner will cause the forfeiture for no consideration of the Executive Participant’s 
Class O Interests (whether or not vested):
•
Fails to Consider Risk,
•
conduct that constitutes Cause, 
•
Breached an Obligation to the Firm,
•
Engages in Solicitation prior to the applicable Class O Vesting Date, or
•
Associates with a Covered Enterprise prior to the applicable Class O Vesting Date.
Deferral of Payment upon Occurrence of Certain Events
If Goldman Sachs determines that one or both of the following events occurs, the General Partner will 
defer any distribution with respect to Class O Interests (other than tax distributions), without interest 
owing on any deferred amount, until the time as Goldman Sachs determines such event is no longer 
occurring:
•
GS Group’s ROE is anticipated or reported to be less than 5%; or 
•
GS Group fails to maintain the required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” as defined 
under Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 
consecutive business days.
[Forfeiture and Repayment upon Accounting Restatement]
[Class O Interests (whether or not vested) will be forfeited, and any amounts previously paid in respect 
of Class O Interests will be subject to repayment, if GS Group is required to prepare an account 
restatement due to GS Group’s material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, with any financial 
reporting requirement under the securities laws as described in Section 304(a) of SOX; provided, 
however, that an Executive Participant’s Class O Interests will only be subject to forfeiture or repayment 
to the same extent that would be required under Section 304(a) of SOX had the Executive Participant 
been a “chief executive officer” or “chief financial officer” of GS Group (regardless of whether the 
Executive Participant actually holds such position at the relevant time).]
Additional Consequences of Forfeiture
Upon any forfeiture, you may be required, in Goldman Sachs’ sole discretion, to return any Class O 
Interest distributions previously received (even though you may have been taxed on income allocated in 
respect of such Class O Interest and/or paid expenses incurred in connection with the formation and 
implementation of any such carried interest arrangement). Subject to applicable law, forfeited Class O 
Interest shall be reallocated to Goldman Sachs (and therefore may be reallocated at a later date) and/or 
to new or existing Limited Partners. Any forfeited Class O Interest that is reallocated to new and/or 
existing Limited Partners may be subject to a different vesting schedule (including a shorter or longer 
vesting schedule). Upon the forfeiture of all or a portion of your Class O Interests, you may be required, 
B-4
in the Investment Manager’s sole discretion, to return any tax distribution amount previously distributed 
in respect of such forfeited Class O Interest.
Definitions
As used in this Supplement:
“Association with a Covered Enterprise,” “Cause,” “Covered Enterprise,” “Engages in 
Solicitation,” Firm,” “Goldman Sachs,” “GS Group,” and “SOX” have the same meaning as set 
forth in the Partnership Agreement.
“Breached an Obligation to the Firm” means that Goldman Sachs has determined, in its sole 
discretion, that an Executive Participant has failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation under 
any agreement with the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with the Executive 
Participant’s Employment, including the Firm’s notice period requirements, applicable restrictive 
covenants (such as restrictions on association with a Competitive Enterprise or Covered 
Enterprise, Engaging in Solicitation, and similar terms or concepts), any offer letter, employment 
agreement (e.g., Managing Director Agreement) or any shareholders’ agreement relating to 
Goldman Sachs.
“Employment” means an Executive Participant’s employment by the Firm.
“ROE” means the return on average common shareholders’ equity as calculated by the Firm.
“Retirement” means termination of an Executive Participant’s Employment at a time when (i) (A) 
the sum of the Executive Participant’s age plus years of service with the Firm equals or exceeds 
60 and (B) the Executive Participant has completed at least 10 years of service with the Firm or, 
if earlier, (ii) (A) the Executive Participant has attained age 50 and (B) the Executive Participant 
has completed at least five years of service with the Firm; in each case, as determined by the 
Firm in its sole discretion.
Certain U.K. Investors Only
The General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the forfeiture for no 
consideration of some or all of the Class O Interest(s) of a U.K. investor who is considered a “Material 
Risk Taker”, if any of the following events occurs prior to the seventh anniversary of the issuance of the 
applicable Class O Interest(s) (which period may be extended by the General Partner in the event of 
any action, proceeding or investigation in connection with any of the following events is initiated by 
Goldman Sachs or a third party prior to the end of such seven-year period): 
(i) The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (and any successor thereto, “GS Inc.”) fails to maintain the 
required “Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio” as defined under Federal Reserve Board Regulations 
applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive business days; 
(ii) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
(the “FDIC”) makes a written recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation Authority) of the 
Dodd-Frank Act for the appointment of the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a 
determination that GS Inc. is “in default” or “in danger of default;” 
(iii) (A) an annual pre-tax loss at GS Inc. or (B) annual negative revenues in one or more reporting 
segments as disclosed in the Firm’s Form 10-K other than the Asset & Wealth Management 
segment (or any successor or equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by the Firm), 
B-5
or annual negative revenues in the Asset & Wealth Management segment (or any successor or 
equivalent segment or sub-segment as determined by the Firm) of $5 billion or more, provided 
in either case that such Class O Limited Partner is employed in a business within such reporting 
segment; 
(iv) there occurs a loss of 5% or more of firmwide total capital from a reportable operational risk 
event determined in accordance with the firmwide Reporting Operational Risk Events Policy;  
(v) such Class O Limited Partner engages in conduct that the Firm reasonably considers, in its sole 
discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary termination of employment under 
English law; or
(vi) an individual with respect to whom the committee appointed by the Board of Directors of GS Inc. 
determines such Class O Limited Partner had supervisory responsibility as a result of direct or 
indirect reporting lines or such Class O Limited Partner’s management responsibility for an 
office, division or business, engages during the calendar year in which such Class O Limited 
Partner’s Class O Interest was issued, in conduct that the Firm reasonably considers, in its sole 
discretion, to be misconduct sufficient to justify summary termination of employment under 
English law.
Certain German Investors Only
The General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the forfeiture for no 
consideration of some or all of the Class O Interest(s) of a German investor who is considered a 
“Material Risk Taker” (a “German MRT”), if any of the following events occurs prior to the seventh 
anniversary of the issuance of the applicable Class O Interest(s) (which period may be extended by the 
General Partner in the event of any action, proceeding or investigation in connection with any of the 
following events is initiated by Goldman Sachs or a third party prior to the end of such seven-year 
period):
(i) the applicable German MRT significantly contributed to, or was responsible for, any conduct that 
resulted in (a) a considerable loss (in particular, but not limited to, an unexpected loss of 0.75% 
(which may also be reached in sum by several individual losses) or more of the total capital of 
the GS Group), (b) a material regulatory sanction for the GS Group and its subsidiaries and 
affiliates comprising one or more of the following (i) a moratorium pursuant to sec. 46g German 
Banking Act (“Kreditwesengesetz” / “KWG”), (ii) a measure in case of danger pursuant to sec. 
46 German Banking Act, (iii) the revocation of appointment of a manager pursuant to sec. 36 
German Banking Act, (iv) a fine pursuant to sec. 56 German Banking Act or a threatened 
penalty payment, if the fine or penalty payment amounts to 0.75% or more of the total capital of 
the GS Group, (v) the cancellation of the banking permit pursuant to sec. 35 German Banking 
Act, (vi) an order to increase the capital requirements by at least 0.5% pursuant to sec. 10 
German Banking Act, (vii) a measure in case of organizational deficiencies pursuant to sec. 45b 
German Banking Act, or (viii) a comparable regulatory order or (c) a material supervisory 
measure; or
(ii) The applicable German MRT acted in serious violation of relevant external or internal rules with 
respect to suitability and conduct, provided that relevant regulations relating to the suitability and 
conduct of the members of the Board of Management include all regulations relating to conduct 
and professional suitability, compliance with which is necessary for the maintenance of a proper 
business organization within the meaning of Section 25a (1) sentence 1 German Banking Act, 
and provided that a violation is always considered serious if it is due to grossly negligent or 
intentional behaviour or if it is suitable to justify a termination of employment for cause pursuant 
B-6
to sec. 626 German Civil Code or a termination of employment for misconduct 
(“verhaltensbedingte Kündigung”) pursuant to sec. 1 German Termination Protection Act 
(Kündigungsschutzgesetz).
Certain GSAM B.V. Investors Only
In accordance with Articles 1:126 and 1:127 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het 
financieel toezicht) in conjunction with Article 2:135 of the Dutch Civil Code (Burgerlijk Wetboek), the 
board of GSAM BV will have the obligation to cause the forfeiture of or to claw back, for no 
consideration, some or all of the Class O Interest(s) of a Dutch investor who works under the 
responsibility of GSAM BV (a “Dutch O Investor”), if any of the following events occurs prior to the fifth 
anniversary of the board of GSAM BV becoming aware of those events:
(i) the Dutch O Investor has not met appropriate standards of competence and proper conduct; 
or
(ii) the person was responsible for behaviours that have significantly deteriorated the financial 
position of GSAM BV. 
In addition, the board of GSAM BV will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the forfeiture for 
no consideration of some or all of the Class O Interest(s) of a Dutch O Investor, if any of the following 
events occurs prior to the fifth anniversary of the board of GSAM BV becoming aware of the event:
(i) the award of the Class O Interest(s) to the Dutch O Investor would be unacceptable 
according to standards of reasonableness and fairness.
Finally, the board of GSAM BV will have the right, but not the obligation, to claw back for no 
consideration some or all of the Class O Interest(s) of a Dutch O Investor, if the following event occurs 
prior to the fifth anniversary of the board of GSAM BV becoming aware of the event: 
(i) the Class O Interest(s) have been awarded on the basis of incorrect information about the 
achievement of the goals underlying the award or about the circumstances on which the 
award was dependent.
Providing Information to the Appropriate Authorities and Protected Communications
In accordance with applicable law, nothing in the Fund Documentation (including the forfeiture, 
clawback and repayment provisions) prevents you from providing information you reasonably believe to 
be true to the appropriate governmental authority, including a regulatory, judicial, administrative, or 
other governmental entity; reporting possible violations of law or regulation; making other disclosures 
that are protected under any applicable law or regulation; or filing a charge or participating in any 
investigation or proceeding conducted by a governmental authority. For the avoidance of doubt, 
governmental authority includes Federal, state and local government agencies such as the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and any state 
or local human rights agency (e.g., the New York State Division of Human Rights, the New York City 
Commission on Human Rights, the California Civil Rights Department), as well as law enforcement 
(e.g., the state Attorney General and the U.S. Department of Justice). Similarly, nothing in the Fund 
Documentation prohibits you from engaging in protected concerted activity pursuant to applicable law 
protecting such activity, including discussing wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of your 
employment; or speaking with your own attorney regarding your own legal rights or obligations. In 
addition, nothing in the Fund Documentation limits your ability to use the internal and external reporting 
B-7
channels that are available to you, as described in the Firmwide Policy on Escalation. “Fund 
Documentation” means this Supplement, the Subscription Materials, the Subscription Agreement, the 
Partnership Agreement and the Offering Memorandum, as well as any other documentation presented 
to you in connection with the Fund.
Tax Considerations
For a general description of certain of the U.S. federal income tax consequences and certain 
other tax considerations applicable to you of an investment in the Fund, including in respect of 
the Class O Interests [           ].
Certain Tax Implications – Funds
The Class O Interests are being granted for no consideration as such Class O Interests are currently 
estimated to have no value. [           ] As a result, you are not expected to be subject to U.S. federal 
income taxes or to have a tax payment obligation in connection with acquiring interests pursuant to this 
offering. However, as valuation principles are inherently uncertain, the assets are illiquid and difficult to 
value, and timely information may not be readily available, there can be no assurance that the 
valuations of the Interests assumed herein will not be challenged by the Internal Revenue Service 
(“IRS”), or that any such challenge would not be upheld. If the IRS determines that the fair market value 
of the Interests you are acquiring exceeds the amount you include in income, you will be required to 
include in income the excess. Accordingly, in agreeing to acquire Interests pursuant to this offering, you 
agree to accept the risk of incurring tax liability. Goldman Sachs cannot quantify the size of any such 
potential tax exposure. If a tax liability occurs, you may be required to make a tax payment to Goldman 
Sachs for any applicable income and employment taxes required to be withheld by, or otherwise paid 
by, Goldman Sachs in connection with the acquisition of the Interests.
As discussed above, in the event that the Class O Incremental Hurdle is established, until the Class O 
Incremental Hurdle has been achieved, any Carried Interest associated with the Class O Interests shall 
be allocated to Goldman Sachs. Once the Class O Incremental Hurdle has been achieved, each holder 
of the Class O Interests will be allocated (i) allocations in respect of the Carried Interest earned after 
that point and (ii) a portion of allocations in respect of the Carried Interest held by Goldman Sachs, until 
the holders of Class O Interests have been allocated income equal to the amount of Carried Interest 
that they would have been allocated in the absence of the Original Hurdle and the Class O Incremental 
Hurdle (the amount described in clause (ii), the “Catch-up Amount”). Adverse consequences, including 
with respect to character of income for tax purposes, may apply to the extent that distributions of 
Carried Interest to a holder of Class O Interests exceed the allocations described in the previous 
sentence. Each Class O Limited Partner should consult his or her own tax advisors with respect to the 
tax consequences of a Class O Incremental Hurdle and related mechanics.
If you are a non-U.S. investor, you should be prepared to be subject to similar rules and similar risks. 
These taxes will generally depend upon the specific laws of your jurisdiction of tax residence, as well as 
the values ascribed to the Interests by your applicable taxing authority. Accordingly, non-U.S. investors 
should also carefully consider these consequences and risks. 
If you are a U.K. investor and you would like to hold your Interests through a brokerage account 
separate from the brokerage account through which you hold other employee fund interests, if 
applicable, please contact [   ].
Potential Changes to Tax Laws and Regulations
B-8
Each Limited Partner should be aware that developments in the tax laws of the United States, or other 
jurisdictions (including as a result of BEPS, ATAD, ATAD 2 and ATAD 3, and DAC6), could, directly or 
indirectly, have a material effect on the tax consequences to the Limited Partners and/or the Fund and 
that a Limited Partner may be required to provide certain additional information to the Fund (which may 
be provided to the IRS or other taxing authorities) or may be subject to other adverse consequences as 
a result of such developments.  
Goldman Sachs is both the owner of the Interests and the Investment Manager of the Funds. As 
a result, Goldman Sachs may be in possession of certain non-public information regarding the 
Funds, assets owned by the Funds, and/or the fair market value of the Interests. Goldman Sachs 
is under no obligation to and may not affirmatively disclose such information. However, you 
may discuss such information with the General Partner. Please contact the designated contact 
person in the launch email with any questions.
An investment in the Fund will involve substantial risks and there are conflicts of interest. 
[           ]
B-9
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Firmwide Insider Trading 
Policy Governing Transactions in GS Securities by 
Covered Persons
Applicability: All Goldman Sachs
Table of Contents
A.
Scope and Summary 
2
B.
Governance and Oversight 
2
C.
Policy Requirements 
2
D.
General Rules Applicable to Covered Persons 
4
E.
Specific Transaction Rules Involving GS Securities by Covered Persons
5
F.
Additional Covered Person Rules 
7
G.
Rules Applicable to Transactions by the Firm 
10
H.
Contacts; Additional Information 
10
I.
Roles and Responsibilities 
10
J.
Exceptions 
10
K.
Reporting and Escalations 
10
L.
Related Documents 
10
Exhibit 19.1
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 1 of 13
A. Scope and Summary
This Firmwide Insider Trading Policy Governing Transactions in GS Securities by Covered 
Persons (this “policy”) applies to transactions entered into by Firm Individuals, including 
Covered Persons, involving Goldman Sachs (“Goldman Sachs” or “GS”) Securities and 
other companies’ securities. The transactions covered by this policy are also subject to the 
Personal Trading Policy, applicable divisional policies and the Firmwide Policy With 
Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities and GS Equity Awards (the 
“Firmwide Trading Policy”), as well as local regulatory requirements.1 
Terms used but not defined in this policy have the definitions set forth in Appendix 
A. 
1.
Framework Linkages
This Policy does not have linkages to any Frameworks.
2.
Regulatory Linkages
This Policy has linkages to the following LRR obligations:
•
17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5.
3.
Risk Taxonomy Linkages
Applicable risks for this document include:
•
Unauthorized Personal Investments or Trading and
•
Misuse or Improper Sharing of Information for Trading, Transactions or Other Firm 
Activities.
B. Governance and Oversight
This policy may be amended or modified in any respect at any time. 
The Deputy General Counsel of the Legal Division is responsible for approving this Policy. The 
Legal Division owns the Policy and is responsible for maintaining and overseeing the Policy, 
reviewing conformance with the Policy requirements, and providing guidance to divisions on 
consistency of the associated divisional Standards / Procedures created in support of this Policy. 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Firmwide Insider Trading Policy Governing Transactions in GS 
Securities by Covered Persons is a Tier I document. As such, this document is required to be 
reviewed at least annually by the Legal Division. 
Risk is owned by all firm personnel and responsibility for oversight lies with the Legal Division and 
Compliance Division.
C. Policy Requirements
1.
Prohibitions Against Insider Trading
U.S. federal and state securities laws impose important restrictions on trading by individuals who 
are in possession of material nonpublic information regarding a company. Under the federal and 
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 2 of 13
1 
See the Firmwide Trading Policy for more information on transactions involving GS Equity Awards and for specific 
restrictions, limitations and procedures, as well as reporting requirements, relating to the trading of GS Securities. If 
any provisions of this policy are inconsistent with the provisions of the Personal Trading Policy or the Firmwide 
Trading Policy, this policy shall govern. 
state securities laws and this policy, no Firm Individual who is in possession of material nonpublic 
information related to the firm, may (i) trade in any GS Securities, or securities issued by another 
company, on the basis of material nonpublic information or (ii) “tip” any material nonpublic 
information to another person who may use such information to trade in GS Securities or such 
other company’s securities. 
2.
Material Nonpublic Information
i
Determining Materiality
Whether a piece of information is material depends on the facts and circumstances in which it is 
created and distributed. 
Information is typically deemed “material” if:
•
There is substantial likelihood that it would be viewed by a reasonable investor as important in 
making an investment decision;
•
Its disclosure would be viewed by a reasonable investor as having significantly altered the total 
mix of information otherwise available; or 
•
It is information that could reasonably be expected to affect the price of a security.
Both favorable and unfavorable information can be material. However, there is no precise definition 
of “materiality,” and the question of whether information is material is subjective and may be 
questioned in hindsight. Accordingly, Firm Individuals are advised to take a cautious view when 
evaluating whether information is “material.” Note that information may be considered material 
even if it relates to contingent, uncertain, or rumored events. Some examples of “material 
information” may include, depending on the particular circumstances:
•
Potential merger and acquisition activities;
•
Potential public offerings or other financings;
•
Financial forecasts or projections;
•
Significant changes in management; and
Significant product developments. This list is intended to be illustrative only and is not exhaustive. 
Many other types of information may be material at any particular time depending upon the 
circumstances.
ii. Determining Whether Information is Nonpublic
“Nonpublic information” is information that is not available to the public about an entity or its 
securities, loans, certificates of deposit, partnership interests, certificates of participation, investment 
contracts and trade claims, as well as any securities- or loan-based swaps or derivatives or other instruments 
that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, or the value of which is affected or dependent 
upon the value of, such instruments (whether physically or cash settled). 
Information is typically considered nonpublic until it has been disseminated to the financial 
marketplace and sufficient time has elapsed to allow the markets to absorb and evaluate the 
information.  Examples of public dissemination include: public filing of a press release or disclosure 
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 3 of 13
to a regulatory authority, and official statement widely distributed to the media (e.g., a statement to 
the media by an authorized senior executive). 
Press speculation and/or market rumors about nonpublic information do not constitute adequate 
dissemination of such information. 
3.
Consequences of Violations
Violations of the insider trading laws can carry both criminal and civil penalties. Potential legal 
penalties include liability for the firm and for Firm Individuals. For an individual, insider trading may 
result in criminal penalties, including fines, jail time or both, and the Securities and Exchange 
Commission has the authority to seek civil monetary penalties. Private parties may also bring civil 
actions seeking damages against any person purchasing or selling a security while in the 
possession of material, nonpublic information. In addition, violations of this policy may lead to 
closure of the applicable account, the voiding or reversal of the relevant transaction (and the 
violator is responsible for any losses, costs or expenses arising in connection with such voiding or 
reversal), as well as disciplinary actions, up to and including termination. 
D. General Rules Applicable to Covered Persons
E.
The following rules (the “General Rules”) are applicable to all transactions involving GS Securities 
by all Covered Persons, unless a specific exception is applicable. 
1.
Window Periods/Blackout Periods
Covered Persons (excluding Senior Directors of GS Inc. (“Senior Directors”) who are Non-Covered 
Senior Directors) may only enter into a transaction involving GS Securities during an applicable 
Window Period (and not during an applicable Blackout Period, except as set forth below).
The following transactions are permitted outside of the applicable Window Period:
•
The automatic exercise or assignment of listed options on GS Shares that are U.S. $0.01 or 
more in-the-money on the expiration date
•
Transactions involving GS Structured Debt Securities, GS Structured Warrants and GS Deposit 
Obligations; provided, that Executive Officers of GS Inc. (as defined for purposes of Section 16 
of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, the “Executive 
Officers”) and GS Inc. Directors may only enter into such transactions during an applicable 
Window Period
•
Transfers of GS Securities between certain accounts with the same tax identification, so long 
as such transfer does not create a taxable event
•
Transfers of GS Securities from a trust account to certain brokerage accounts with the same 
tax identification, so long as such transfer does not create a taxable event
•
Executive Officers, members of the Management Committee of GS Inc., Non-Employee 
Directors and, in certain circumstances, PMDs specified by an Authorized Person (“Specified 
PMDs”), but not other Covered Persons, are permitted to sell GS Shares pursuant to a firm-
approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan with respect to the sale of their GS Shares
o
Entry into, amendment of or termination of any firm-approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan must 
be pre-approved by the General Counsel of GS Inc. or her or his designee
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 4 of 13
Regardless, the firm may impose Special Blackout Periods at any time and for any period relating 
to any or all types of GS Securities or any or all categories of Covered Persons. 
2.
 Market, Limit, Good-Til-Date and Good-Til-Cancelled Orders
Covered Persons are permitted to place the following types of orders for purchases and sales of 
freely transferable GS Securities:
•
Market orders
•
Limit orders
•
Good-Til-Date orders (so long as the expiration date is within the applicable Window Period) 
Covered Persons are not permitted to place Good-Til-Cancelled orders. 
3.
Certification of No Material Nonpublic Information and Compliance with This Strategy
Prior to entering into any transaction involving GS Securities (other than GS Deposit Obligations), a 
Covered Person must certify, among other things, that they are not aware of material, nonpublic 
information with respect to GS Inc., subject to certain conditions set forth in the Firmwide Trading 
Policy.
Additionally, with respect to transactions in GS Structured Debt Securities and GS Structured 
Warrants, Executive Officers and GS Inc. Directors must certify that they are not aware of material, 
nonpublic information with respect to any underlying securities referenced by the GS Structured 
Debt Securities or GS Structured Warrants.
4.
Pre-Clearance/Notification Process for Transactions Involving GS Securities
Executive Officers and members of the Board of Directors of GS Inc. (each, a “GS Inc. Director”) 
are not permitted to enter into any transactions involving GS Securities (excluding transactions 
involving GS Deposit Obligations) without first obtaining approval from the General Counsel of GS 
Inc. or her or his designee (or, in the case of the General Counsel, approval from the Chief 
Compliance Officer of GS Inc. or her or his designee) and providing an attestation that they are not 
aware of material nonpublic information pursuant to Section 3 above. Pre-clearance is effective 
until the end of the next business day, except for any individuals who are held to the Goldman 
Sachs Asset Management Code of Ethics, who must trade within the same day of approval.
Transactions involving Non-GS Instruments Linked to GS Securities must go through all required 
firm, divisional, departmental and desk pre-clearances required. 
F. Specific Transaction Rules Involving GS Securities by Covered Persons
The following rules (the “Specific Transaction Rules”) apply to specific types of transactions 
involving GS Securities by Covered Persons.
1.
Selling GS Securities
Covered Persons are permitted to sell their freely transferable GS Securities. Short sales of GS 
Securities are not permitted.
2.
Hedging GS Shares
Subject to certain conditions set forth in the Firmwide Trading Policy, Covered Persons may:
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 5 of 13
•
Hedge their GS Shares, but only by writing (selling) listed covered calls with a maturity of at 
least 30 days or buying listed protective puts with a remaining maturity of at least 30 days. 
•
Buy listed cash-secured calls on GS Shares with a remaining maturity of at least 30 days and 
write (sell) listed cash-secured puts on GS Shares with a remaining maturity of at least 30 days.
Covered Persons are not permitted to establish over-the-counter (“OTC”) option or other derivative 
positions to hedge their GS Shares. 
Covered Persons are generally not permitted to enter into other short derivative or hedging 
transactions involving GS Securities or other transactions involving options on GS Securities 
(including entering into forward contracts, equity swaps or any similar agreements referencing GS 
Securities). Exceptions include permitted purchases of listed covered puts and writing of listed 
covered calls on GS Shares.
Covered Persons may not transfer GS Shares that provide cover for any call options written by or 
protective puts purchased by a Covered Person (except for delivery of such GS Shares upon 
exercise of such call or put).
Covered Persons are not permitted to enter into other transactions involving the purchase or sale 
of options on GS Shares other than those described above.
3.
Pledging GS Securities
Covered Persons are generally permitted to pledge, subject to certain exceptions, their GS 
Securities as security in connection with an extension of credit from a third party. 
4.
Transactions Involving Non-GS Instruments Linked to GS Securities
Covered Persons are not permitted to enter into transactions involving any Non-GS Instruments 
linked to GS Securities (listed or OTC), other than those which are linked to an Approved Index, 
Approved ETF or Approved Basket (each as defined in the Firmwide Trading Policy).
When entering into permitted transactions involving Non-GS Instruments Linked to GS Securities, 
Covered Persons may not hedge out all or a portion of the risk not involving GS Securities and 
thereby create exposure to GS Securities in excess of the permitted percentage of their value in 
the index, basket or exchange-traded fund (“ETF”).
5.
Transactions Involving GS Structured Debt Securities and GS Structured Warrants
Covered Persons are permitted to enter into transactions involving GS Structured Debt Securities 
and GS Structured Warrants.
These transactions:
•
Are not subject to the Window Periods/Blackout Periods (other than Executive Officers and GS 
Inc. Directors);
•
Are subject to the 30-Day Rule (as described in the Personal Trading Policy); 
•
If entered into by an Executive Officer or GS Inc. Director, must be pre-approved by the 
General Counsel of GS Inc. or her or his designee (or, in the case of the General Counsel, pre-
approved by the Chief Compliance Officer of GS Inc. or her or his designee); and
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 6 of 13
•
Are subject to an attestation that the Covered Person is not in possession of material 
nonpublic information pursuant to Section B.3.
When entering into permitted transactions involving GS Structured Debt or GS Structured 
Warrants, Covered Persons may not hedge out all or a portion of the risk not involving GS 
Securities, which would create exposure to GS Securities in excess of the permitted percentage of 
the value of GS Securities in an Approved Index, Approved ETF or Approved Basket.
6.
Donating, Gifting or Bequeathing GS Securities
Subject to the following conditions, Covered Persons are permitted to donate, gift or bequeath GS 
Securities:
•
Except for GS Equity Awards, which are subject to special policies, Covered Persons are 
permitted to make donations under their will of any GS Securities that they own at the time of 
their death, or during their life to a trust that is for their sole benefit and revocable by them 
acting alone until their death or earlier incapacity.
•
A donation or gift of GS Securities must be made during a Window Period.
7.
Prohibition Against Lending GS Securities
Covered Persons are not permitted to lend their GS Securities.
8.
Prohibition Against Margining GS Securities
Covered Persons are not permitted to margin their GS Securities, except as set forth under the 
headings “PMDs” and “Non-Employee Directors” and as permitted by an Authorized Person and 
the Goldman Sachs Private Wealth Management Department.
9.
Prohibition Against Transactions Involving GS Credit Derivatives
Covered Persons are not permitted to engage in any transactions involving GS Credit Derivatives. 
G. Additional Covered Person Rules
The following rules (the “Additional Covered Person Rules”) are applicable to all transactions 
involving GS Securities by certain categories of Covered Persons in Covered Accounts or 
otherwise and must be read in conjunction with the General Rules and the Specific Transaction 
Rules.
1.
Executive Officers
Transactions involving GS Securities entered into by an Executive Officer are subject to the 
General Rules and the Specific Transaction Rules, but are also subject to the additional rules set 
forth below.
Executive Officers are not permitted to:
•
Enter into any transaction involving GS Securities (other than GS Deposit Obligations) without 
first obtaining approval from the General Counsel of GS Inc. or her or his designee (or, in the 
case of the General Counsel, approval from the Chief Compliance Officer of GS Inc. or her or 
his designee) and providing an attestation that they are not aware of material nonpublic 
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 7 of 13
information pursuant to Section B.3, even if the Access Person Window Period is open. No 
such transactions are permitted during a closed window.
•
Hedge, buy or sell options on GS Shares, including GS Shares in which they have a pecuniary 
interest.
•
Pledge their freely transferable GS Securities as security in connection with an extension of 
credit from a third party without first obtaining approval from the General Counsel of GS Inc. or 
her or his designee (or, in the case of the General Counsel, approval from the Chief 
Compliance Officer of GS Inc. or her or his designee), but neither GS Inc. and its affiliates nor 
any of their people can arrange, directly or indirectly, such extension of credit or otherwise 
assist an Executive Officer with obtaining an extension of credit.
Executive Officers are permitted to sell GS Shares pursuant to a firm-approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan 
with respect to the sale of their GS Shares. Entry into, amendment of or termination of any firm-
approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan must be pre-approved by the General Counsel of GS Inc. or her or his 
designee.
2.
Members of the Management Committee of GS Inc.
Transactions involving GS Securities entered into by a member of the Management Committee 
who is not an Executive Officer are subject to the General Rules and the Specific Transaction 
Rules, but are also subject to the additional rules set forth below.
If the Access Person Window Period is open, notification to Global Compliance Employee Services 
of a transaction involving GS Securities (other than GS Deposit Obligations) is required, but pre-
clearance is not required.
If the Access Person Window Period is closed or there is another special circumstance, no 
transaction involving GS Securities (excluding transactions involving GS Deposit Obligations, GS 
Structured Debt Securities (except with respect to Executive Officers) and GS Structured Warrants 
(except with respect to Executive Officers)) can be made until senior compliance / business 
manager approval is received.
Members of the Management Committee are permitted to sell GS Shares pursuant to a firm-
approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan with respect to the sale of their GS Shares. Entry into, amendment of 
or termination of any firm-approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan must be pre-approved by the General 
Counsel of GS Inc. or her or his designee.
3.
PMDs and Senior Advisors
Transactions involving GS Securities entered into by a PMD or a Senior Advisor are subject to the 
General Rules and the Specific Transaction Rules. Senior Advisors and PMDs who are not 
Executive Officers are permitted to obtain margin with respect to their freely transferable GS 
Securities during the Access Person Window Period, subject to prior approval.
4.
Specified PMDs
Transactions involving GS Securities entered into by a Specified PMD are subject to the General 
Rules and the Specific Transaction Rules (as well as the Additional Covered Person Rules with 
respect to PMDs), as well as additional rules for such period of time as any Authorized Person may 
deem appropriate. Specified PMDs may be permitted to sell GS Shares pursuant to a firm-
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 8 of 13
approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan with respect to the sale of their GS Shares. Entry into, amendment of 
or termination of any firm-approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan must be pre-approved by the General 
Counsel of GS Inc. or her or his designee.
5.
Senior Directors and Covered Retired Limited Partners
Transactions involving GS Securities entered into by Senior Directors and Covered Retired Limited 
Partners are subject to the General Rules and the Specific Transaction Rules, except as set forth 
below.
Senior Directors (including Covered Senior Directors) and Covered Retired Limited Partners are 
not subject to the 30-Day Rule.
Non-Covered Senior Directors are not subject to trading only in the Window Periods.
Covered Senior Directors and Covered Retired Limited Partners are either Access Persons or Non-
Access Persons depending on their access to information as determined by an Authorized Person 
and are subject to the applicable Window Periods. 
6.
Non-Employee Directors
Transactions involving GS Securities entered into by Non-Employee Directors are subject to the 
General Rules and the Specific Transaction Rules, except as set forth below.
•
Except as otherwise provided below, Non-Employee Directors are not permitted to:
o
Enter into any transaction involving GS Securities (other than a transaction involving GS 
Deposit Obligations) without first obtaining approval from the General Counsel or her or his 
designee of the applicable GS Entity of which they are a director.
o
Hedge, buy or sell GS Shares, including GS Shares in which they have a pecuniary 
interest, except Non-Employee Directors that are Subsidiary Directors may hedge, buy or 
sell freely transferable GS Shares in an Access Person Window Period, but pre-clearance 
is required from the General Counsel or her or his designee of the GS Entity of which they 
are a director.
o
Pledge their GS Shares as security in connection with an extension of credit from a third 
party without first obtaining approval from the General Counsel or her or his designee of the 
GS Entity of which they are a director, but neither GS Inc. and its affiliates nor any of their 
people can arrange, directly or indirectly, such extension of credit for a GS Inc. Director or 
otherwise assist a GS Inc. Director with obtaining an extension of credit.
•
Even though margin is generally prohibited, Non-Employee Directors that are Subsidiary 
Directors are permitted to obtain margin with respect to their freely transferable GS Securities 
during the Access Person Window Period, but pre-clearance is required from the General 
Counsel or her or his designee of the GS Entity of which they are a director.
•
Non-Employee Directors are permitted to sell GS Shares pursuant to a firm-approved Rule 
10b5-1 Plan with respect to the sale of their GS Shares. 
o
Entry into, amendment of or termination of any firm-approved Rule 10b5-1 Plan must 
be pre-approved by the General Counsel of GS Inc. or her or his designee.
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 9 of 13
•
This policy does not apply once a person ceases to be a Non-Employee Director and is not 
otherwise a Covered Person.
•
Non-Employee Directors will be asked to represent that they are not aware of material, non-
public information concerning GS Inc. and the GS Entity of which they are a director and, with 
respect to transactions in GS Structured Debt Securities and GS Structured Warrants, GS Inc. 
Directors must certify that they are not aware of material, nonpublic information concerning any 
underlying securities referenced by the GS Structured Debt Securities or GS Structured 
Warrant, as applicable.
7.
Contingent Workers, Advisory Directors and Regional Advisors
Transactions involving GS Securities entered into by Contingent Workers, Advisory Directors and 
Regional Advisors are subject to the General Rules and the Specific Transaction Rules.
Contingent Workers, Advisory Directors and Regional Advisors are either Access Persons or Non-
Access Persons depending on their access to information (as determined by an Authorized 
Person) and are subject to the applicable Window Periods.
H. Rules Applicable to Transactions by the Firm
Transactions by the firm in GS Securities are subject to applicable securities laws and must be 
done in accordance with the resolutions and policies adopted by the GS Inc. Board of Directors or 
a committee thereof.  Issuances by the firm of GS Securities other than GS Structured Debt 
Securities and GS Structured Warrants are also generally subject to blackout periods, established 
by Corporate Treasury, during which pricing, sales and settlements are generally not permitted.
I.
Contacts; Additional Information
If you have any questions regarding this policy or would like to request an exception from this 
policy, contact one of the people listed for “General Questions” in the Firmwide Trading Policy.
J.
Roles and Responsibilities
•
Who owns the risk: Firm Personnel
•
Who manages the risk: Legal and Compliance
•
Who reviews the risk: Legal and Compliance
K. Exceptions
L.
All exceptions to this policy must be escalated to the Policy Owner for approval.
M. Reporting and Escalations
N.
All transactions involving GS securities by Covered Persons may be subject to monitoring by the 
firm. 
O. Related Documents 
•
Firmwide Policy with Respect to Personal Transactions Involving GS Securities and GS 
Equity Awards
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 10 of 13
General
As used in this Policy, Advisory Directors, Contingent Workers, MDs, PMDs, Regional Advisors and 
Senior Advisors are individuals designated as such in the personnel systems of the firm. 
Specific Defined Terms
1.
Access/Non-Access Persons
Covered Persons are designated as either “Access Persons” or “Non-Access Persons” and 
departments, businesses or desks of the firm can be designated as “Access” or “Non-Access,” 
in each case based generally on their potential access to material, non-public information about 
the firm. Access Persons include the following Covered Persons:
•
All PMDs and MDs of the firm, as well as Senior Advisors
•
All Non-Employee Directors
•
All Firm Individuals in departments, businesses or desks of the firm designated as Access 
by an Authorized Person
•
A Firm Individual or any other person designated as an Access Person by an Authorized 
Person
Non-Access Persons are all Covered Persons who are not designated as Access Persons.
2.
Authorized Persons are the General Counsel of GS Inc., Chief Compliance Officer of GS Inc. 
or such other individuals to whom any of the foregoing shall delegate authority to make 
exceptions to all or certain rules under this policy.
3.
Blackout Periods, including Access Person Blackout Periods and Non-Access Person 
Blackout Periods, are any periods of time that are not part of the applicable Window Periods. A 
Special Blackout Period is any period of time determined by an Authorized Person when trading 
by Access Persons and/or Non-Access Persons or any other group of Firm Individuals is not 
permitted for certain or all GS Securities, even if that period of time falls within a previously 
announced Access Person Window Period or Non-Access Person Window Period.
4.
Covered Accounts include accounts in which a financial instrument can be purchased, sold or 
held that are controlled or directed by a Covered Person or in which a Covered Person has a 
beneficial interest.
5.
Covered Persons are:
•
Firm Individuals
•
Non-Employee Directors
•
Related Persons of a Covered Person
•
Other persons who, or entities which, by the terms of any other agreement with the firm, 
are made subject to this policy (e.g., Covered Retired Limited Partners and Covered 
Senior Directors)
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 11 of 13
6.
Covered Retired Limited Partners are those Retired Limited Partners who have access to the 
firm’s e-mail, data or computer systems (except to the extent clients of the firm have the same 
access) or unescorted access to the firm’s premises (not including unescorted access which is 
limited to the 200 West Street ground floor lobby, the 11th floor Sky Lobby and the elevators). 
An Authorized Person may designate such person to be “Non-Covered.”
7.
 
Covered Senior Directors are those Senior Directors who have access to the firm’s e-
mail, data or computer systems (except to the extent clients of the firm have the same access) 
or unescorted access to the firm’s premises (not including unescorted access which is limited to 
the 200 West Street ground floor lobby, the 11th floor Sky Lobby and the elevators). An 
Authorized Person may designate such person to be “Non-Covered.”
8.
Firm means GS Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, other than those that are treated as 
consolidated investments for financial statement purposes.
9.
Firm Individuals include:
•
Employees (also “people”) of the firm2
•
Contingent Workers
•
Regional Advisors
•
Senior Directors
•
Covered Retired Limited Partners
•
Other persons that any Authorized Person may designate from time to time
10. GS Credit Derivatives are any obligation issued by any entity other than a GS Entity that by its 
terms pays principal or interest based in whole or in part on the credit of a GS Entity (e.g., 
based on the bankruptcy, default on obligations or the credit spreads of a GS Entity), as well as 
any similar obligation or any other obligation designated by an Authorized Person.
11. GS Deposit Obligations are any obligation of a GS Entity that is regulated as a bank and that 
under the applicable law governing such GS Entity is deemed to be a “deposit,” whether or not 
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any similar organization. Exclusions 
include any deposit that is a GS Structured Debt Security, as well as any similar obligation or 
any other obligation designated by an Authorized Person.
12. GS Entity means GS Inc. or any of its consolidated subsidiaries.
13. GS Equity Awards include all equity-based compensation awards or other equity-based 
awards or any other award, arrangement or agreement the value of which is based in whole or 
in part on the value of GS Shares, other than interests in the Goldman Sachs Stock Fund in the 
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 12 of 13
2 A person ceases to be an employee of the firm for purposes of this policy once their “active employment” has been 
terminated and such person ceases to receive a salary from the firm. To the extent that any “notice period” is 
applicable to the termination of employment, active employment will for the purposes of this policy be deemed to 
continue through the end of such notice period. If the firm and, to the extent required, the person agree to waive all 
or a portion of such notice period, then active employment for purposes of this policy will be deemed to terminate on 
the date that the person ceases to receive a salary from the firm.
“Severance,” “salary continuation periods,” and any other periods of time with a similar status (as determined by the 
firm) are not deemed to be periods of active employment.
Goldman Sachs 401(k) Plan, as well as any similar obligation or any other obligation 
designated by an Authorized Person.
14. GS Inc. means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
15. GS Securities are securities issued or guaranteed by GS Inc. or any other GS Entity, as well 
as Non-GS Instruments Linked to GS Securities.
16. GS Shares are shares of the common stock of GS Inc. and, if issued, voting shares of 
preferred stock of GS Inc.
17. GS Structured Debt Securities are any debt obligations (including notes, certificates, 
certificates of deposit or deposit accounts) issued or guaranteed by a GS Entity where the 
obligation is structured so that the amount received as principal by the holder of such obligation 
at maturity or the amount received as periodic interest is determined by reference to one or 
more equity securities, currencies, commodities or the credit of one or more entities (including 
indexes, ETFs and baskets) and include any similar obligation or any other obligation 
designated by an Authorized Person.
18. GS Structured Warrants are any warrant or similar instrument issued or guaranteed by a GS 
Entity that is exercisable into anything other than GS Securities, as well as any similar 
obligation or any other obligation designated by an Authorized Person.
19. Non-Employee Directors are GS Inc. Directors and/or Subsidiary Directors who are not 
employed by the firm.
20. Non-GS Instruments Linked to GS Securities are financial instruments issued by an entity 
that is not a GS Entity where more than 10% (5% in the case of instruments that are linked to 
baskets or sector/industry indexes and ETFs) of the payout and/or market value at the time 
they are issued is linked to one or more GS Securities, as well as any similar obligation or any 
other obligation designated by an Authorized Person.
21. Related Persons are individuals with the following relationships to a Firm Individual:
•
Spouses or domestic partners
•
Minor children of the Firm Individual or such Firm Individual’s domestic partner
•
Any other family members residing in the same household
Family members and any other relatives not living with a Firm Individual may be deemed 
Related Persons if they are financially dependent on that individual. Their status as Related 
Persons will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
22. Retired Limited Partner is a retired Partner of The Goldman Sachs Group, LP or its 
subsidiaries or a retired PMD.
23. Rule 10b5-1 Plan is a trading plan designed to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) 
under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
24. Subsidiary Directors are individuals (other than a Firm Individual) who serve as members of 
the board of directors of a GS Entity other than GS Inc.
25. Window Periods, including Access Person Window Periods and Non-Access Person Window 
Periods, are such periods as are determined by an Authorized Person.
FIRMWIDE POLICY: INSIDER TRADING POLICY GOVERNING TRANSACTIONS IN GS 
SECURITIES BY COVERED PERSONS
Publication Date: December 18, 2024 
 
Page 13 of 13
EXHIBIT 21.1
Significant Subsidiaries of the Registrant
The following are significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2024 and the states or 
jurisdictions in which they are organized. Each subsidiary is indented beneath its principal parent. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
owns, directly or indirectly, at least 99% of the voting securities of substantially all of the subsidiaries included below. The names 
of particular subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute, 
as of the end of the year covered by this report, a “significant subsidiary” as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X 
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Name
State or Jurisdiction of 
Organization of Entity
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Delaware
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
New York
Goldman Sachs Funding LLC
Delaware
GS European Funding I S.A R.L. LLC
Delaware
Murray Street Corporation
Delaware
Sphere Fundo De Investimento Multimercado - Investimento No Exterior Credito Privado
Brazil
Sphere Fund
Cayman Islands
GS Financial Services II, LLC
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Global Funding I, CO.
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Global Funding II LTD
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs (UK) L.L.C.
Delaware
Goldman Sachs UK Funding Limited
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs Group UK Limited
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs International Bank
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs International
United Kingdom
J. Aron & Company LLC
New York
GSAM Holdings LLC
Delaware
GSAMI Holdings I LLC
Delaware
GSAMI Holdings II Ltd
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Holdings Ltd
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, L.P.
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Holdings LLC
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Asset Management UK Holdings I Ltd
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs Asset Management UK Holdings II Ltd
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Holdings I B.V.
Netherlands
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Holdings II B.V.
Netherlands
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Holdings B.V.
Netherlands
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Holdings B.V.
Netherlands
Goldman Sachs Asset Management B.V.
Netherlands
Goldman Sachs (Asia) Corporate Holdings L.L.C.
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Holdings (Asia Pacific) Limited
Hong Kong
Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd.
British Virgin Islands
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.
Japan
GS Lending Partners Holdings LLC
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Bank USA
New York
Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE
Germany
Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company
New York
GSSG Holdings LLC
Delaware
ALQ Holdings (Del) LLC
Delaware
GLQ International Partners LP
Jersey
GLQ International Holdings Ltd
Jersey
GLQ Holdings (UK) Ltd
United Kingdom
GLQ Holdings (UK) II LTD
United Kingdom
GLQL S.A R.L.
Luxembourg
GLQC Holdings S.A R.L.
Luxembourg
GLQC II Designated Activity Company
Ireland
Goldman Sachs Non-US Americas Holdings LLC
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Non-US Americas Holdings II LLC
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Canada Holdings LLC
Delaware
Goldman Sachs Canada Inc.
Canada
Broad Street Principal Investments Superholdco LLC
Delaware
GS Fund Holdings, L.L.C.
Delaware
Broad Street Principal Investments, L.L.C.
Delaware
EXHIBIT 23.1 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 
333-284538) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-80839, 333-42068, 333-106430, 333-120802, 333-235973 and 
333-261673) of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. of our report dated February  26, 2025 relating to the 
consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which 
appears in this Form 10-K. 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 26, 2025 
EXHIBIT 31.1 
CERTIFICATION 
I, David Solomon, certify that: 
 
1.
I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 of The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc.; 
2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a 
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements 
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly 
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as 
of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
4.
The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure 
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over 
financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be 
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its 
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period 
in which this report is being prepared; 
b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial 
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles; 
c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report 
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period 
covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred 
during the registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s 
internal control over financial reporting; and 
5.
The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of 
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
a)
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over 
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, 
summarize and report financial information; and 
b)
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant 
role in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. 
Date: February 26, 2025
  /s/
 David Solomon
  
  Name:  David Solomon
 
  Title:
 Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
CERTIFICATION 
I, Denis P. Coleman III, certify that: 
 
1.
I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 of The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc.; 
2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a 
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements 
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly 
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as 
of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
4.
The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure 
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over 
financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be 
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its 
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period 
in which this report is being prepared; 
b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial 
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles; 
c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report 
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period 
covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred 
during the registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s 
internal control over financial reporting; and 
5.
The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of 
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
a)
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over 
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, 
summarize and report financial information; and 
b)
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant 
role in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. 
Date: February 26, 2025
  /s/
 Denis P. Coleman III
  
  Name:  Denis P. Coleman III
 
  Title:
 Chief Financial Officer
 
EXHIBIT 32.1 
CERTIFICATION 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the Company) hereby 
certifies that the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the Report) fully 
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and 
results of operations of the Company. 
 
Date: February 26, 2025
  /s/
 David Solomon
  
  Name:  David Solomon
 
  Title:
 Chief Executive Officer 
 
The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350 and is not being filed as part of the 
Report or as a separate disclosure document. 
 
CERTIFICATION 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the Company) hereby 
certifies that the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the Report) fully 
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and 
results of operations of the Company. 
 
Date: February 26, 2025
  /s/
 Denis P. Coleman III
  
  Name:  Denis P. Coleman III
 
  Title:
 Chief Financial Officer
 
The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350 and is not being filed as part of the 
Report or as a separate disclosure document. 
